Russian ex-spy poisoned by Putin"probably"approved=report of the British Ministry of the interior of the public investigation Committee on July 21, 2006 in London occurred in the Russian former intelligence officer Alexander・Litvinenko of Mr. poisoned about the incident,Russian President Vladimir Putin killing"probably"would have approved and Rome and the Smithsonian Institution's Consortium for understanding and sustaining a biodiverse planet. The report,Putin and Litvinenko's personal"confrontation", but the President poisoned to approve one of the reasons would have noted that. Killed was 43-year-old was Litvinenko of Mr. from the body, the radioactive substance polonium 210 were detected. Teresa Mei Ying interior Minister, the assassination is"outright(illegal)act is not permitted"and criticized. On the other hand the Russian Foreign Ministry is"purely a criminal case was supposed to be a political issue, and bilateral relations overall air affect I am afraid"and on the contrary criticized. According to Interfax,Russian President Dmitry・page costs the President's press Secretary, the Russian government's formal response through diplomatic channels reportedly said. David Cameron British Prime Minister is to solve the problem the UK has with Russia"no diplomatic relations"to maintain of the things you need,"more of an eye on a very cold heart,"a corresponding said. From the previous high level of interest for this report, the Russians of Andrey Lugovoi a suspect and Dmitry・the fans, the suspect is a hotel in London in the Litvinenko of Mr. drink polonium 210 to mix the poisoned and assertively as. A public investigation Committee headed by Robert Owen judge, this 2-person assassination run is a"for sure"and, perhaps the Russian Information Agency, the Federal Security Administration (FSB) of the Directive made under, the FSB Nikolai・the chef Secretary and President Vladimir Putin approved would have said. Also, the assassination of motivation, the Litvinenko says Britain's intelligence agencies for activities, and the FSB and President Vladimir Putin against criticism and dissident involvement mentioned. "Send a message" to the judge in addition, Litvinenko and Mr. Putin and of the conflict between the"without a doubt personal aspects, there was,"he said. The report,from a reactor different from the polonium 210 is the poison that was used is"where the state's involvement strongly suggests that it has pointed out that". Litvinenko Mr to escape the radioactivity in the sluggish death that was,"send a message"was it testimony also. The main intraclass British House of Commons to explain Prime Minister David Cameron has"as early as possible"Putin on the contents of the report to us you said. The interior Minister is,Lugovoi and Mr. the Mr. The International Wanted will continue, and the British government both to freeze the assets of the said. Both Litvinenko says the killings have denied. The British authorities both to questioning to Russia asking for, the Russian government has extradition refused. London's High Court before the conference was Litvinenko of Mr. wife Marina says,"My husband is death on the floor of Mr Putin is involved, he said. The words of the UK court is proven,"and"so glad,"he said. Marina is the British government, against the Russian Information Agency all of your co-workers to deportation, the Russian economic sanctions to the Department, and Mr Putin to be banned to be appealed. Moscow--Oleg・ball details the reporters the Russian government over the years,Litvinenko says killing high-ranking officials are not involved argued that. This time President Putin himself the assassination was associated with the government's stance has not changed. Owen judge of the"likely"word into the material, the Russian ruling class in the 2nd to high position people,mainly government supported faction of the lawmakers, the report said the entire political intents have concocted to argue. Russian social media is in Russian,"maybe Putin approved"(