Earthquake in a Ghost town in Italy attractions Martha Kearney,BBC Radio 4 presenter Vista, and the most striking application of this 1000 years would be. In Italy the most famous of the plains, one of the piano Grande in the middle of the top of the hill of the beautiful village. But the village down the road from the building is crumbling, the roof collapsed and the Umbrian countryside than on the battlefield to conjure a view. Central Italy this area of catastrophic earthquake from 1 years have passed,visitors to the hotel check near the so-called"Zona・Rosa"(in Italian in a restricted area of meaning)back into this and allowed. However the village itself is still, do not go back. Restricted area is still dangerous to have only been to the area, but the"La・Fiori Tula"found that the exception is provided. The piano Grande of farmland in blooming wild flowers is a sight to behold as the flowering of the landscape here. Civic leader the bimodal pulse of the higher forces cordoned off to road traffic for about 40 cars joined them. Many villages in this region of the earthquake that struck the impact is visible. The first earthquake in 2016 8 months, next 10 months to happened. Such a village is seen, Quake 1 years ago, not just about what happened yesterday. The village of the inhabitants of the majority of the coastal portion of the hotel to move to,live. A high ridge on the get out of the car,2 hours plain walk down. Plain from the Umbria and Marche border and bet level mountain some of the mountain peaks is visible. The slope of the mountain towards the top of the earthquake, came out after the deep black chasms seemed. Plains to come down,impressionist painting reminiscent(almost two)and that, like the unusual colors of many sight are like shooting stars I can really use a wish right now The meadow is an area of flowers in the Thin Red dyeing and other places cornflower vivid blue had become. Usually,the ornate flowers to take pictures of,in 1 Day 1 million people had visited and described. This year, the 1 day the number of visitors is less than 1,000. This field is the number of people than the swarm of bees is a lot. From the glacial lake was the piano Grande, a 16-square-kilometre literally in Great Plains surrounded by mountains. Gourmets all over the world we became famous among the crops of lentils,the most striking version of the farmers here grow well. Farmers this year, the season to prepare for the village to get into multiple cars with no and the bouncer wouldn't even let me in the club. Ghost none Ghost version level as the altitude 1452 meters of the village be permitted to enter who is not. Family generations living home upwards, albeit Lorenzo Capone suggested, the lentils and wild peas to the side of the road stalls sell. Why the reconstruction started to take some time though and wondered. The building is too old from. Is it monetary issues would. "The difference,"said Capone, a small team of partners, monitor and the system is exasperating, thanks to said. "The country and politicians are not. The European Union (EU)from a lot of the money they have,to our eyes in any direction, it can't be". One the most striking touch was a denizen of the other people,the support of small irritations, and the piano Grande, a visitor to prohibit all think. This is when it can be luring people that"the tourism industry"and they sue. However, the local village chief of the Italian daily newspaper"Repubblica"on the piano・Grande flowers is the most striking check of the people are not the only ones to talk with. The world heritage,more than anything else, the tourists will increase if the local economy in support of you to say so. Unmatched in this valley, in the midst of the most stunning views and nature's majestic beauty to be seen and at the same time, the most destructive figure of the forces of nature, also C ... Hundreds of years continue to exist for houses,in just a moment, putting the stones back to life. 