

MPs' vote in support of the government's Brexit timetable features on many of Thursday's front pages.
The Daily Mail's headline declares that it was "the day MPs spoke for Britain" and says the government's resounding majority must surely put the matter beyond doubt.
In the paper's view, it would be perverse in the extreme if the Supreme Court were now to rule that the timing of withdrawal must go back to Parliament, giving die-hard Remain MPs and unelected peers a chance to sabotage a policy backed by 17.4 million voters.
Is it being suggested, the Telegraph asks, that the courts will instruct MPs as to the way in which they must conduct their business? If so, it says, that is a very novel and dangerous constitutional proposition.
The Express marks the MPs' vote with a headline saying "Hooray!" "It's about time too...now let's get on with it," the paper adds. The Star prefaces its report on the vote with the headline, "Here we go!"
The i newspaper praises Labour for "forcing" the prime minister to change her mind and agree to publish her plan for Brexit before invoking Article 50. The party has shown it can still be an effective opposition, it says.
On its front page, the Sun says it can reveal that all 302 killings by British troops during the Northern Ireland Troubles are being investigated afresh. As many as 1,000 ex-servicemen - many now in their 60s or 70s - will be viewed as manslaughter or murder suspects, it adds.
According to the paper, the cases are being re-opened by the Police Service of Northern Ireland's newly-created Legacy Investigations Branch. The paper's headline describes the move as a "bloody outrage".
Its leader column says it is unforgiveable that our veterans should be dragged before investigators years after cases were closed, whereas terrorists are freed or given immunity in the name of peace.
Boris Johnson's remarks accusing Saudi Arabia of engaging in "proxy wars" in the Middle East make the lead for the Guardian. It says they flout a long-standing Foreign Office convention of not criticising the UK's allies in public.
Foreign Office ministers - aware of Saudi sensitivity to criticism and the strategic importance of the Gulf relationship - usually soft-pedal and focus on their path to reform, the paper says. It adds, however, that since becoming foreign secretary Mr Johnson has repeatedly landed himself in trouble.
It points out that the comments emerged as Theresa May returned from a visit to the Gulf in which she praised the Saudis.
For its main story, the Times says an investigation by the paper has found that overcharging by consultancy companies on British foreign aid projects is rife. It says the International Development Secretary, Priti Patel, is to review all foreign aid contracts after an analysis of more than 70,000 financial transactions revealed that consultancy spending had doubled to £1bn a year since 2012.
According to the paper, one British think tank quoted more than £10,000 to write a single blog post and another received £23,000 in taxpayers' money to write a two-page policy brief.
The deal between unions and Tata Steel to secure the future of the Port Talbot steelworks and other sites makes the lead for the Financial Times. It says it will fuel hopes of a lasting resolution to the crisis in the UK steel industry.
For the Mirror, the agreement is a victory for workers who refused to roll over and die. It says it should inspire other workers to stand up and be counted when their livelihoods are threatened.
The Times reports that David Cameron is building a speaking and writing career away from Westminster, three months after standing down as an MP.
According to the paper, he is following in the footsteps of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown by setting up a company, The Office of David Cameron Ltd, to handle his activities after leaving Downing Street.
It says he is on a speaking tour in the US and will appear at DePauw University in Indiana. The topic: "The historic events of 2016 and where we go from here."
The Telegraph reports that employers are rejecting job applications from commuters who rely on Southern Rail because of fears they will not be able to make it to work on time. Services have been beset by delays, cancellations and strikes in recent months.
According to the paper, MPs from across the South East say hundreds of constituents have been in touch to warn they are in danger of losing their jobs. The Conservative MP, Nick Herbert, is quoted as saying some have even had job offers withdrawn.
There is anger at the pharmaceutical giant, Pfizer, as well as a distribution company after they were found to have overcharged the NHS for an anti-epilepsy drug. The i newspaper accepts that pharmaceutical companies have a right, and a need, to make profits. That does not, and should not, mean the right to profiteer, the paper adds.
The Mirror says every pound overcharged could have been spent on nurses, doctors, social care or drugs.