

"Europe in turmoil as Italian PM is defeated" is the main headline in the Times.
The paper says Italy's vote to reject Matteo Renzi's plans for constitutional change will send "shockwaves" through financial markets and European capitals.
The paper says the global anti-establishment backlash "has claimed another scalp".
For the Daily Mail, the result is a further "landmark victory" for populist movements, following the Brexit vote and the triumph of Donald Trump in the US presidential election.
It says a referendum on constitutional reform became a vote of confidence in Mr Renzi's government, concluding that the prospect of an Italian vote on leaving the single currency - and by extension the EU itself - has now drawn closer.
In the Daily Telegraph, Italy's anti-immigrant Northern League describes it as a defeat for Mr Renzi and "all those who serve him", including the bankers, the financiers and "pseudo journalists, financed by the state".
Peter Foster, the paper's Europe editor, argues Mr Renzi's "biggest mistake was vowing to resign if he lost".
The Guardian says the result threatened to plunge the Eurozone's third-largest economy into political chaos.
It will be seen as a rejection of establishment politics in favour of populist, anti-immigrant forces, it says.
However, the paper says this could be an over-simplification, as many "No" voters were to the left of Mr Renzi.
The Financial Times, meanwhile, considers the economic implications, predicting that uncertainty unleashed by the result could jeopardise plans to raise money by Italy's struggling third-largest bank.
The paper says Mr Renzi did try to channel the anti-establishment mood - by arguing that a "Yes" vote for his plans represented much-needed change for Italy.
However, the FT says his pitch was "met with derision from the opposition".
It believes the prime minister made a mistake when he personalised the vote by threatening to resign - a move it says galvanised those against him.
The Telegraph focuses on the result of Austria's presidential election.
It says the defeat of the far-right candidate, Norbert Hofer, was greeted "with a sigh of relief" by Europe's "embattled liberals".
A photograph in the Times shows a jubilant supporter of the winning candidate - a former Green party leader - brandishing a placard, bearing the words: "Thank God".
"Don't Defy The People", runs a headline on the front page of the Telegraph.
The paper reports that Attorney General Jeremy Wright will tell Supreme Court judges preparing to hear a legal challenge on Brexit not to "stray into areas of political judgement".
The Guardian, meanwhile, describes it as one of the "most significant constitutional cases" ever heard by the Supreme Court.
Gina Miller, who initiated the case at the High Court, tells the paper she believes the Supreme Court judges have been "vilified" before the case has even begun.
The Mail compares the exhaustive process to confirm members of US Supreme Court with the system here.
It is "somewhat scandalous", the newspaper argues, that Britain's Supreme Court judges achieve their status "without any public scrutiny whatsoever".
Photographs of all 11 Supreme Court judges feature in many of the papers, not least the Times and the i.
The Financial Times describes it as one of the most politicised cases for decades.
Several newspapers welcome the findings of Dame Louise Casey's review into social integration.
The Times says the report's tone is "a marked departure" from previous attempts to encourage cohesion between ethnic groups, which have largely put the onus on the British-born white population.
The Guardian highlights a finding that previous ministerial efforts to boost integration amounted to little more than "saris, samosas and steel drums for the well-intentioned".
And finally, the newspapers report a pub landlord from Hull has banned Christmas jumpers.
Alan Murphy tells the Daily Mail he wants to create "a haven of tranquillity" and doesn't want to deal with "15 lads all dressed in Christmas jumpers making a beeline for the bar and making life difficult for others".
The Telegraph, meanwhile, strikes a more festive note.
It reports people in a Wiltshire town have broken the world record for staging the biggest nativity play.
More than 1,200 residents of Calne signed up to play shepherds, angels and wise men.
The paper says the sheer number of actors requiring traditional nativity outfits sparked a town-wide shortage of bed sheets, a crisis only averted when a local launderette stepped in.