

Justine Varga's portrait of her grandmother has caused controversy after winning the Olive Cotton Award - Australia's top portrait prize worth A$20,000 (£12,000). The portrait, called Maternal Line, contains no face - and the artist used her grandmother's pen scrawls and streaks of her saliva to create the work. But is it art?
Jackson Pollock made scrawly abstract drip paintings; 70 years later Justine Varga has made a scrawly abstract dribble painting. That's progress for you.
People complained about his work back in the 1940s, and people are complaining about hers now. So it goes.
Personally, I couldn't care less if she uses spit or sawdust to make her pictures (Warhol made images using urine), just as long as they are good.
It's a little unfair of me to judge a large photographic portrait from afar, on a small computer screen splattered (non-artistically) in cooking fat, but I can see it is not rubbish.
This whole Dali exhumation business is weird. It's right up there with any of his surreal artworks for its sense of the macabre and otherness. Nothing about this story is straightforward.
Let's start with where he is buried. Having died in 1989 and then been embalmed by Narcis Bardalet (who said he thought Dali would have found this whole affair hilarious), he was buried under the stage of his Theatre Museum in Figueres, north east Spain.
Maria Balshaw wants to make the Tate "the most culturally inclusive institution in the world", which she thinks it is far from being at the moment.
"We are about a third of the way down the road," she says.
Brooklyn Beckham's first photography book, What I See, has been published to somewhat mixed reviews.
Here are a few thoughts:
Given that Yusaku Maezawa has paid $110.5m (£85.4m) for Jean-Michel Basquiat's painting, one has to accept that to at least one person, it is worth $110.5m.
I have to say it strikes me as a bonkers price to pay. It's not that Basquiat wasn't a good artist, he was.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
I know some folk think Chris Ofili has gone off the boil since his Turner Prize-winning heyday, when he was considered one of Charles Saatchi's gang of Young British Artists.
Back then, Ofili incorporated elephant dung and cut-outs from porn mags in his paintings, which upset Mayor Giuliani considerably (and the current President who called Ofili's painting, Holy Virgin Mary, "absolutely gross") when Saatchi took his Sensation show to NYC in 1999.
You really can have too much of a good thing.
Champagne tastes like sheet metal after the third glass. Sunbathing gives you cancer. And the ubiquity of Henry Moore sculptures in English market towns in the 1970s put me off his work for a quarter of a century.
Damien Hirst's new exhibition Treasures from the Wreck of the Unbelievable has been nearly a decade in the making, and cost the artist tens of millions of pounds.
It runs until December in Venice, Italy.
Sometimes with art, it is instructive to gauge public opinion. It can help blow away the cobwebs of pretension that get spun in your mind's eye if you hang around the art world too much.
It's a particularly useful exercise with modern art, and almost essential when it comes to the abstract stuff. Hence, I arrived on Piccadilly this morning armed with a photo of one of the last paintings Howard Hodgkin produced before he died two weeks ago.