

My blog is taking a break.
I will not be writing my blog over the summer as I am taking some extended leave to write a book.
I look forward to returning at the beginning of October.
One department is likely to be cheering the publication of the Mathew Taylor review into the new world of work.
The Treasury will be delighted with the recommendations from Mr Taylor, the head of the Royal Society of Arts, on gig economy companies.
A government review of the rapidly changing world of work is to demand a radical overhaul of employment law and new guarantees on the minimum wage.
The review is set to call for a new category of worker called a "dependent contractor".
The food delivery firm Deliveroo has said it will pay sickness and injury benefits to its 15,000 riders in the UK if the law is changed.
In a submission to the government's review of the "on-demand" economy seen by the BBC, the firm says that at present the law prevents it from offering enhanced rights because it classifies its riders as self-employed.
Today's productivity figures are bad to the point of shocking.
A fall of 0.5% in the first three months of the year takes the UK economy's ability to create wealth back below the level of 2007.
The former chairman of the Low Pay Commission has said that the minimum wage should be extended to gig economy workers.
Lord Adair Turner argued that the proliferation of "low-wage jobs" needed to be tackled and that some companies were categorising workers as "self-employed" to avoid low-pay protections.
The Treasury jealously guards its role as keeper of the public purse.
And far from the mood since the general election easing on the matter of "sound money", the word among senior figures in the department is that now is the time "to hold our nerve".
Ultra low interest rates were put in place after the financial crisis to stop a recession turning into a depression.
Many believe they worked.
Out of the single market.
Out of the customs union.
So, he's said it.
Mark Carney made the direct link between "weaker real income growth" and the process of leaving the European Union.