Celebrity Big Brother: Who are the contestants?

The latest series of Celebrity Big Brother has started on Channel 5 in the UK - featuring the usual mix of the famous, the little bit famous and the "we're not quite sure" contestants.
Sarah Harding was part of the hugely successful band Girls Aloud, formed on the talent show Pop Stars: The Rivals.
She's since taken part in shows including Celebrity Masterchef and Tumble, and has also turned her hand to acting with roles in BBC credit crunch drama Freefall, with Dominic Cooper, plus Coronation Street and St Trinian's.
Shaun Williamson is best known for his role as Barry in EastEnders and has also starred in Ricky Gervais's Extras and opposite Warwick Davis in Life's Too Short.
He's no stranger to the stage either, with the roles of Baron Bomburst and Lord Scrumptious in the UK tour production of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang among his credits.
Medium and psychic Derek Acorah is known for Living TV's Most Haunted.
He also does regular live shows and has just finished his Whispers from Heaven tour around the UK. According to his website, he is currently working on a new TV project called Beyond the Grave.
Paul Danan became a household name in the '90s when he played Sol in Channel 4 soap Hollyoaks.
Others might remember him as one of the most entertaining contestants in ITV's Celebrity Love Island back in 2005. TV fans will be hoping he also brings fireworks to the Big Brother house.
Helen Lederer is a comedian, actress and writer whose screen roles have included magazine journalist Catriona in the Absolutely Fabulous television series.
She's already taken part in several celebrity game shows including Celebrity Masterchef and Splash.
Chad Johnson is best known as the star of US dating show The Bachelorette.
His antics made him the contestant that everyone loved to hate. He went on to star in Bachelor of Paradise but was booted out for his unacceptable behaviour. So sparks may fly.
Sam Thompson is familiar to Made in Chelsea fans for his turbulent relationship with Tiffany Watson.
He followed in his big sister Louise's footsteps - she was one of the hit show's original cast. But how will Sam fare mixing it with the hoi-polloi in CBB?
Sandi shot to fame on Channel 4 show Gogglebox, where she entertained the nation alongside her friend Sandra with their hilarious takes on TV shows.
Sandi left the show last year and has been replaced by Sandra's daughter Chanchez. Last year she took part in Celebrity Fat Fighters on TLC.
Karthik Nagesan may not have won The Apprentice last year but he was a big hit with audiences, who loved his unabashed cockiness even though he wasn't always great at the tasks.
He described himself as the ultimate "human magnet" and cited his role model as Alexander the Great.
Marissa Jade is a reality TV celebrity in the US - she became a star in the US show Mob Wives, which features the lives of wives of ex-prisoners.
She recently tweeted a picture of herself outside the gates of Buckingham Palace. Not quite sure the Big Brother house will live up to expectations.
Ex on the Beach contestant and Ibiza Weekender Jordan Davies is also known for being the ex-boyfriend of Towie's Megan McKenna.
Brandi Glanville was a successful model before becoming a household name in the US as a regular in The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills.
She was once married to CSI: Miami actor Eddie Cibrian, with whom she had two children. They divorced and he went on to marry singer LeAnn Rimes.
Singer Amelia Lily came third on the X Factor in 2011, the year that Little Mix won.
She released three singles but then turned to the theatre with roles in the UK tour of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat and Green Day musical, American Idiot.
Trisha Paytas is a YouTube star with nearly three million followers. Her frank vlogs have made her a minor celebrity in the US.
Glamour model Jemma Lucy is no stranger to reality TV, having appeared on MTV's Ex on the Beach. She also took part in Katie Price's model scouting show, Signed by Katie Price.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.