Kevin Bishop chases laughs from Hollywood to Young Vic

When it was first staged, Once in a Lifetime provided exactly the wisecracking humour Broadway audiences expected in the 1930s. Actor Kevin Bishop thinks that's more often TV's role today - but he sees a direct line from the heyday of Kaufman and Hart to shows like Friends and Seinfeld.
Kevin Bishop has had his own sketch show on Channel 4 and appeared on the same channel's Star Stories in 2006, impersonating everyone from Elton John to Justin Timberlake.
He recently played Nigel Farage for the BBC and next year he'll tape a new series of Porridge, playing the grandson of Ronnie Barker's original Fletch, after a pilot episode received good reviews.
He also writes and is an expert at sizing up a comedy script.
"When I read Once in a Lifetime, there were parts where I thought - this will need cutting a bit," explains Bishop. "Because in the kind of comedy I do, you pare back everything - there can't be unnecessary exposition or any repetition."
He says Harry Enfield, his co-star who plays Hollywood studio boss Herman Glogauer in the Young Vic production, had exactly the same reaction.
"This is Harry's stage debut so, like me, his skills have been honed on screen," says Bishop.
"But when we got the play on its feet in front of an audience, we saw why [George S] Kaufman and [Moss] Hart wrote the way they did. It's very fast - but it's not a quick two-minute TV sketch. There are times where the writers need to let the audience know what's going on. So Richard Jones [the play's director] was adamant about stuff staying in."
In 1930, Once in a Lifetime was the first of seven full-length scripts co-written by Kaufman and Hart. Twenty years later, Kaufman would be the director of the musical Guys and Dolls - and in 1956 Hart directed My Fair Lady.
The plot concerns a trio of small-time vaudeville performers who, in the early years of talking pictures, move to Hollywood hoping to make it as experts in elocution.
The comic potential of glamorous silent stars who have absolutely zero vocal skills was shamelessly recycled much later in the movie Singin' in the Rain.
The play was largely unknown in Britain until a hit RSC production in 1979, starring Zoe Wanamaker and Richard Griffiths.
That version turned parts of the play into a semi-musical, but this time Bishop has been happy to concentrate on the dialogue.
"You really have to take this play at a click - it's very New York. There's an element almost of farce and the only limitation is how fast physically the cast can deliver the lines.
"I really love the era this play is set in. The recent equivalent to this style isn't on stage - it's TV comedies like Friends and Seinfeld.
"You still get the same pattern in the dialogue: little laugh, middle laugh, really big laugh. And maybe the big laugh will have a physical pay-off.
"Friends was taken slower than our play is: Once in a Lifetime asks its audience to grasp things quickly, in a way TV sitcoms won't generally risk. But the way the dialogue functions, with the snappy comebacks and putdowns and all the insults - that's basically the same."
From 2013, Bishop spent 18 months in the States, working mainly on the TV series Super Fun Night for ABC, starring Rebel Wilson. His wife and young children went too.
"From personal experience I would say that for an actor the way Los Angeles works today really isn't so different from the 1930s," he says.
Bishop shot 17 half-hour episodes of Super Fun Night before it was cancelled.
"Actually it was a great experience: I'd shipped my entire home to Los Angeles. There was an attempt to do the series as a multi-camera show with a live audience but finally it became single-cam with no audience. But the mechanics there are that there's no straight news about anything. So every single person on set was saying the show was a hit.
"In fact originally I had my doubts about whether it really was a hit, but eventually I bought into what everyone else was saying. So when suddenly the end came, I was shocked. And you see some of the same thing in Once in a Lifetime - people in Hollywood being flattered and pampered and then it disappears overnight.
"Maybe showbusiness hasn't changed that much. There's a fine line between positivity and denial."
"In the play, Kaufman and Hart were smart because they created the character May, who's played by Claudie Blakley. She has her head screwed on and sees that a lot of Hollywood talk is just nonsense - so on stage she represents what the audience is thinking.
"When I was living in LA you could say it was my wife who had that function. I'd started falling for the sweet-talk but she remained clear-eyed about the whole thing."
After his stint at the Young Vic, Bishop returns to a role he thought he'd done purely as a one-off - the follow-up to the 1970s comedy classic Porridge. There was a single episode in August on BBC One, which got good reviews. Now Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais are writing a series.
"When I was approached about the one-off I was delighted - but I was told there was absolutely no chance of a series. In a way that was reassuring, given how brilliant Ronnie Barker had been in the original. Dick and Ian are superb writers and they've already run a few storylines past me. They're still on top form.
"Once in a Lifetime is a great comedy but it's totally unlike Porridge. But there's an overlap for me because shooting in front of an audience with Porridge is more like live theatre and the audience does affect where you go with a line.
"No one believes it, but with Porridge there's no canned laughter at all - what you hear is the real audience reaction. It's like being at the Young Vic."
Once in a Lifetime is at the Young Vic theatre in London until 14 January. 
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.