Love Island: Why are viewers complaining?

Viewers have been complaining about Love Island - but not for the reason you might think.
The ITV2 show sees single men and women put together in a Majorcan villa to find love and win a £50,000 prize.
So far this series, there have been several instances of, shall we say, intimate behaviour taking place.
But broadcasting regulator Ofcom says it has actually received far more complaints about scenes that show the contestants smoking.
The series airs after the 21:00 watershed but has still attracted 46 complaints to date.
More than half of those - 24 - were from viewers objecting to the portrayal of smoking.
Fifteen of the complaints were made about the promotion of "sexual material and promiscuity".
The remaining complaints were for bad language, grievances about a racial slur and violence (for the time when a contestant threw a cushion "aggressively").
Ofcom has said it will assess the 46 complaints before deciding whether to investigate further.
The ITV2 show has a large following and an audience that includes pop singer Adele.
Speaking at the second of her Wembley dates last week, she labelled one of the contestants a "tramp" for taking part in a show in which "real people have real sex on real TV".
Falling in love isn't easy - let alone falling in love on national television, writes entertainment reporter Genevieve Hassan.
But that's what 13 sexy singletons hope to do on Love Island, which is halfway through its third series on ITV2.
If you've never seen it before, the premise is to couple up and convince the public to keep you on the island in order to win £50,000 - all while trying to find your perfect match.
Think Big Brother but with board shorts, bikinis and more under-the-sheets shenanigans than you can shake a stick at, as the couples chop and change throughout the series.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.