London attack: Victim Christine Archibald 'died in fiancé's arms'

A Canadian woman who was killed in the London terror attack died in her fiancé's arms after being struck by the speeding van, her family has said.
Christine Archibald, 30, a former homeless shelter worker, is the first victim to be named after Saturday's attack at London Bridge.
Her family asked people to donate money or their time to a shelter, saying: "Tell them Chrissy sent you."
Canadian PM Justin Trudeau said he was "heartbroken" at Ms Archibald's death.
Three attackers were shot dead by police after driving a van into pedestrians on the bridge, before going on to stab people in Borough Market.
The attack left seven people dead and 48 injured. Of the 36 people still being treated in hospital, 18 remain in a critical condition.
In a statement, Ms Archibald's family said they had lost a "beautiful, loving daughter and sister".
"She had room in her heart for everyone and believed strongly that every person was to be valued and respected," they said.
"She would have had no understanding of the callous cruelty that caused her death."
They said Ms Archibald, from British Columbia, had worked in a shelter for the homeless until she moved to Europe to be with her fiancé, Tyler Ferguson.
"Please honour her by making your community a better place.
"Volunteer your time and labour or donate to a homeless shelter. Tell them Chrissy sent you," the statement added.
Mr Ferguson's sister, Cassie Ferguson Rowe, said her brother held Ms Archibald as she died in his arms.
Writing on Facebook, she said: "Last night in London my baby brother lost the love of his life on the London Bridge.
"In a split second his entire life was ripped away from him. Hearing his painful sobs on the phone while he's alone trying to deal with this tears me apart.
"I have no words. If you know Tyler, please be there for him now, and later when what happened sinks in, he's going to need us all."
Mr Trudeau said Canadians "stand united with the British people".
"We will continue to work together with the United Kingdom and all our allies to fight terrorism and bring perpetrators to justice," he said.
"These hateful acts do not deter us; they only strengthen our resolve."