Leeds Halloween 'Mad Max' biker event gang jailed

The gang behind a Halloween "ride-out" in Leeds which was likened to scenes from the film Mad Max has been jailed.
More than 100 bikers congregated in Kirkstall Road before riding into the city, disrupting traffic and driving through pedestrianised areas.
David Armitage did not take part in the event but had organised it through social media, Leeds Crown Court heard.
Also jailed were 12 other defendants, who had all admitted causing a public nuisance at an earlier hearing.
The judge said their actions on 31 October could "not be tolerated".
Read more about this and other stories from across Yorkshire
Armitage, 26, of Brookfield Road, Headingley, had been filmed on 31 October telling riders to "shut down" the city centre.
Jailing him for two years, Judge Geoffrey Marson QC said: "This is a case which calls for a deterrent sentence.
"Behaviour of this sort, having serious effects on this city, cannot be tolerated."
West Yorkshire Police received around 160 calls from members of the public, some of whom had likened it to scenes from the Mel Gibson film, Mad Max.
Ch Supt Paul Money said: "The behaviour of these individuals and others that night put people's safety at risk, caused unnecessary fear to the public and created an image of lawlessness in the heart of the city that we simply could not allow to go unchallenged."
Following the incident, Leeds City Council secured an injunction banning people from anti-social driving of vehicles, including motorbikes and quad bikes, in any public place where it involves two or more vehicles.
Councillor Debra Coupar said the group had shown "sheer disregard" for public safety.
David Armitage, 26, of Brookfield Road, Headingley - jailed for two years
Jamie Ayres, 26, of Lupton Avenue, Burmantoftswas - jailed for 12 months
Omar Ahmed, 24, of Stonegate View, Meanwood - jailed for 12 months
Ashley Benson, 25, of Whingate Road, Armley - jailed for 12 months
Michael Clough, 27, of Torre View, Burmantofts, - jailed for 14 months
Ben Colley, 26, of Butterbowl Road, Farnley, also convicted of driving while disqualified and without insurance - jailed for 14 months
Dean Fawcett, 28, of Intake View, Middleton - jailed for 12 months
Nicholas Flaherty, aged 29, of Prospect Street, Farsley, also convicted of perverting the course of justice - jailed for 18 months
Rachel Taylor, aged 29, of Nowell Lane, Harehills - jailed for 12 months
Joshua Hawley, aged 22, of Mead Grove, Colton - jailed for 12 months
Dylan Lockwood, aged 23, of Torre Grove, Burmantofts - jailed for 12 months
Adam Nicholson, aged 26, of Henley Terrace, Bramley - jailed for 12 months
Anton Rojas, aged 26, of Skelton Avenue, Burmantofts - jailed for 12 months