London attack: Two Australians are confirmed killed

Two Australians were killed in the London Bridge terror attack, the government in Canberra has said.
South Australian nurse Kirsty Boden, 28, died while running towards danger to help victims on the bridge, her family said.
Nanny Sara Zelenak was the other Australian to die.
In a statement, the family of the 21-year-old Queenslander said they were "deeply saddened at the tragic loss of our beautiful daughter and sister".
They added: "Sara's family and friends are devastated."
Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said she was "deeply saddened" to confirm that two Australians had been killed.
"The Australian government has remained in close contact with the families who have requested privacy," she said on Wednesday.
Ms Boden was from a town called Loxton, about 250km (155 miles) from Adelaide, and had been working in the UK as a senior staff nurse.
Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said that she had been killed by "cowardly, vicious terrorists".
Her family said she was adored by her family, friends and boyfriend.
"She was the most outgoing, kind and generous person who loved to help people," their statement said.
"We are so proud of Kirsty's brave actions which demonstrate how selfless, caring and heroic she was, not only on that night, but throughout all of her life. Kirsty - we love you and we will miss you dearly."
Ms Zelenak, from Brisbane, was working as an au pair in London.
Mr Turnbull said she was seen fleeing from the knifemen during the attack.
Her aunt described her niece as "the girl next door, very special and a kindred spirit".
She had reportedly been due to babysit on Saturday night, but the child's grandmother stepped in, which meant she could go out with friends.
Her father on Facebook posted a video of his daughter and commented: "I really miss that funny little laugh."
Friend Elle Bishop said she would "find solace in the fact that the hate that saw you taken from us, you have never felt inside, making you a remarkable young woman".
Two more Australians, Candice Hedge from Brisbane and Andrew Morrison from Darwin, were among the injured.