Austria election pits far right against veteran liberal

The two candidates in the re-run of Austria's presidential election, Norbert Hofer of the far-right Freedom Party and the former Green politician Alexander Van der Bellen, have held their final campaign events before the vote on Sunday.
If Mr Hofer wins, he would be the first far-right head of state in the EU.
Traditionally, the far-right Freedom Party ends its election campaigns with a big rally at the Viktor-Adler market in the 10th district of Vienna, a working-class area. There's beer, and a band playing Austrian-style pop and country music.
But not this time.
This time it was all about looking presidential.
Norbert Hofer, who has tended to present himself as the smooth, soft face of the Eurosceptic, anti-immigrant Freedom Party, held his final campaign appearance in the marble halls of the Vienna Stock Exchange.
Standing at a podium, emblazoned with the slogan, "Your Homeland Needs You Now", he gave a speech billed as the state of the nation.
Norbert Hofer
Alexander Van der Bellen
Presidential elections are normally quiet affairs in Austria - but this long and turbulent campaign has broken the mould.
It began with a major upset in April, when the two main centre-left and -right parties, the Social Democrats and the conservative People's Party, were knocked out of the race, for the first time since 1945.
That left the two outsiders, Norbert Hofer from the far right and Alexander Van der Bellen, a liberal, pro-European former Green politician.
At the run-off in May, Mr Van der Bellen won narrowly, by less than 1%.
But then the result was overturned by the High Court because of issues with the way postal votes were counted. A re-run planned for October had to be postponed because of problems with the glue on postal votes.
Mr Van der Bellen, who has been trying to widen his appeal, held his final rally at a party venue in Vienna's 10th district - the traditional stronghold of the Freedom Party.
The mayor of Kaunertal, the small village in Tyrol where Mr Van der Bellen came to live as a child with his Russian and Estonian parents who were refugees from the Soviet Union, addressed the cheering crowd.
"Look what can become of a refugee child," the mayor, Josef Raich, said.
Analysts say the result for Sunday's vote is too close to call.
If Mr Hofer wins, it will be seen as a sign that European rightwing populism is alive and well after Brexit and the victory of Donald Trump.
If Mr Van der Bellen wins, there is likely to be a sigh of relief from Europe's elites.