The "comfort women"Videos,premiere U.S. archival records from the Discover South Korea・Seoul 5 days,during World War 2 the Japanese Imperial Army soldiers as sex slaves to work as forced"comfort women"for us to reflect and to publish the video. The "comfort women"reflects the video was discovered, this is the first time that. U.S. National Archives and Records Administration and stored for 18 seconds of video, Seoul National University researchers have 2 years of study at the end of the would have found. Research is Seoul City's budget provided by. In the video, horizontally aligned plurality of female Chinese officer talking with a state that is reflected. South Korean activists,about 20 million women the Japanese Imperial Army of the prostitution facility is forced to work with had been estimated. The majority of them are Korean-born, but in China, Indonesia, the Philippines,Taiwan, women were also considered. The photos and testimonies by the survivors, but there was no evidence. According to the investigation team picture in 1944 in 9 months, it's in Japan, it was under the sway of Yunnan province, China the US-China allied forces were taken by. Liberated the Korean Peninsula from the women of 7 people,a Chinese officer talking with. Officer of the US-China allied captain of estimated. The issue of "comfort women"for many years relations between the two countries to frictions(do you think that it's a)birth. South Korea, the Japanese apology and compensation is not claimed. 2015 in Japan, based on the agreement,Prime Minister Shinzo Abe"from the heart and reflect the feelings expressed,"and at the time of President Park Geun-Hye to apologize. In addition, the Japanese government,the Korean government operated by the former"comfort women"Support Fund to 10 billion yen in contributions. It is also the issue of"comfort women"for Japan and South Korea the two sides of frictions(is it you)continues, this year 1 month in the Korea・Busan Consulate-General of Japan in front of the"comfort women"to symbolize the girl image was set up to be as a countermeasure, the Japanese government Korea Ambassador to the temporary return to Japan. As well as girl image of Seoul Japanese Embassy in front was also established, the government is both the image of the removal of seeking. 