16-year-old girl's"revenge rape"statement about 20 people arrested in Pakistan Pakistan's Eastern Punjab province the in 26, the My brother made in rape of retaliation as a sister of the 10 teenage girl to rape instruction, as about 20 people were arrested. According to police, the victim was a girl 2 people are relatives to each other...... great Both families like to decide to discuss the place of attendance. The local police of La・the Kush Mr AFP for"Digital girl (village elder meeting), the 12-year-old girl raped as punishment, the perpetrators of the sister of 16-year-old girl rape by order,"he said. Version Kush said, this year 7 month, 12-year-old sister and rape and say the men from the elders meeting in consultation with them. Elders meeting then the damage complained of men against retaliatory action as the perpetrators and that man sister rape ordered to. The instruction is executed. Pakistan's English-language newspaper"Dawn", according to the girl the elders before the conference that forced the elders meeting of the members and in front of their parents, rape and the like. Then 2 people of the girl's mothers is the local police Department living room filed. Authorities conducted inspections on both in the incident of rape was confirmed. Another law enforcement person, and the original Mr. BBC Urdu for the first raped girl aged 12 to 14 years old, and revenge rape victim girl between the ages of 16 and 17-year-old said. The user terminal according to the police, 25 people concerning occasions, and have received a 12-year-old girl raping a man is still a getaway during the say. Multiple reports in the rape of the instruction down of page guide known as the elders conference, when the BBC interviewed the participants in fact, according to the families in the tribe made organizations say. Business guide for local elderly residents made by the Council, and more. Pakistan's rural areas is often in conflict solving. But unlawful presence in a number of controversial decisions have been accused. During the so-called"honor killings"and,in the past of"revenge rape"to get you. In 2002, the girl was 28 years old Mouffetard・my to gang rape ordered. Mai's then 12-year-old brother is the older woman and the sexual relationship has for the US. My most rape perpetrators of us complained. Rape victims of women is still a substantial stigmatized from Pakistan, a very courageous act it was. Pakistan's Supreme Court, the special court's conviction was overturned when,from Pakistan to escape many for the village to rest,himself is raped or a place near the girls for school and to protect women shelters made. My I is the current,prominent female activist,her experience from 2014 in New York"the thumbprint(fingerprint)"as the stage was. 