McCain US Senator, brain tumors, and diagnosis John McCain U.S. Senator(Republican, Arizona elected)office of 19 September,of Deputies to the brain tumor(and continued)is diagnosed,treatment methods have been explored and published. Elected to 6th term in the 80-year-old McCain deputies,the 2008 presidential candidate of the Republican candidates currently in the Senate Military Committee. The Navy as an officer in the Vietnam War the North Vietnamese army shot down,taken prisoner as a 5 and a half years, of which 2 years in near solitary confinement spent in the experience. According to the Office,of the left eye on the blood clots get rid of at the time of surgery,"glioblastoma(the law) called"the tumor is found. Surgery is 14 days to the local office Phoenix, performed in the MPs is currently at home recuperating. Cancer treatments as chemotherapy and radiation therapy considering. "The Senator's attending physician, the surgery from"surprisingly good"in recovery, basically for health and diagnostics"and the office is explained. Glioblastoma is a particularly high degree of malignancy, aging and with the onset of the probability increases. More men than women is a lot to attack. Daughter Mega lot(32), the family with the diagnosis"a shock"to receive it. "As expected, but the state of Affairs of who in the more confident and calm this is my father,"said Mega is revealed,"until now, every challenge, working on this challenge we are also working on. Cancer by a variety may be affected, but never surrender in...... Ever surrender as this person wrote". Donald・Trump-election campaign, McCain deputies are always"militants"and comments,"sooner better"with us. The President during the election,their criticism of McCain lawmakers about"the war hero was taken captive had said,"Mega I, including many from the accused. Mitch・my record in the Senate Minority Leaders(Republican) McCain lawmakers"of this country heroes"and honor,"never fight fled from or did not. Exceptional courage is his life characterized by love. This challenge equally exceptional courage in working to do"and tweets, and early recovery expect the comment to be published. The 2008 US election campaign of 対立候補 was Barack Obama former President,"John McCain is an American hero, and I know that the most valiant knights of one. Most of the opponents of, cancer is not. And of course, John"it. Hillary Clinton former Secretary of State also,"John McCain as tough as people are so so not. John and Cindy(Mrs.),wonderful children and the whole family thing tonight"I thought to it. 