The Federal District Court,送油管 construction temporary injunctive indigenous claims dismissed rice in the state of North Dakota Native Americans from the oil pipeline were against the construction problems in the capital Washington Federal District Court on the 13th,the construction stop of a disposition to seek the claim dismissed. Indigenous and lock・Sioux and Cheyenne・River・Sioux Tribe, the"Dakota Access"Pipeline, place of residence close to the reservoir under a through from that, drinking water is contaminated there is a risk that as the litigation was causing. Indigenous people from,they are sacred to the cemetery is the construction of a pipeline by the trolls to be concerned with. The project cost $ 3.8 billion (about 4300 billion) on pipeline nears completion in North Dakota mined for shale oil in Illinois in November the amount of approximately 47 million barrels sent says. Illinois end from a ship in the oil refining equipment can be carried. Developers of the Energy・Transfer Partners(ETP)is the problem of where the planned construction land owned by the U.S. Army with permission from last week, 8 days construction resumed. Indigenous peoples from the 9th to the pipeline for the lawsuit is settled until the construction work to stop the preliminary injunction asked the court to you....... Indigenous people from the pipeline by the construction of water sources is threatened not only by the reservoir of the religious ceremony is performed and claimed. On the other hand, ETP Inc. and the army is a temporary injunction in opposition to, and in fact the pipeline begin to be used before the court in the opinion said that the time is remaining claimed. Indigenous people from the opposition by the pipeline construction have been stopped. The planned construction site to the indigenous people, mainly thousands of demonstrators gathered overnight at the protests I went. According to police, the protest movement last year, starting from 700 people were arrested. Obama the previous administration the last 9 months, the construction of a pipeline to continue not to admit to the decision. However, Donald Trump presidential Year 1 month appointment immediately after the rapid-fire shift in policy to one of the pipeline construction permit were included. 