The German medical education is, however, to undergo a reform after the recent approval of changes to regulations on medical registration. After this reform several medical schools may change their curriculum to increase the efficiency and the quality of education and to decrease the total costs (Cooper-Mahkorn 1999). Another particular problem is the high proportion of specialists compared to general practitioners (European Parliament 1998). Primary health care The organization of primary health care in Germany is much more complex than in other countries, partly because of the traditional sharp separation between hospital and ambulatory care, and partly because the latter is provided by both general practitioners and specialists, with freedom of access and referrals between them. In general, primary health care physicians have not been able to treat patients in hospitals and hospitals have not provided outpatient surgery and services, which are provided by general practitioners, specialists or dentists. Since this led to long referral chains, duplication of technical equipment and repetition of diagnostic tests, the 1993 Health Care Structure Act was introduced to improve some aspects of this separation. Now independent general practitioners and specialists are allowed to gain access to a certain number of hospital beds to perform hospital-dependent treatment, e.g. surgery, and there is more possibilities for increased participation of ambulatory services in inpatient care and for joint acquisition of high-cost technical equipment (Schulenburg 1994, European Parliament 1998). Local public health offices provide services such as social and psychiatric services, family services, mother and baby care and school health services free to everybody regardless of their insurance status. All levels of government finance these services. The interrelationship of public health services to other health care has been described as poor (OECD 1992), and in general public health has been said to have a low priority and the effectiveness of preventive care has been questioned (Iglehart 1991b).