Health care finance and expenditure The financing system has been changed to be based on insurance, but the longer-term option of competition between insurance schemes was left open. Funding was separated, with investment costs coming from state and local government resources, and the recurrent costs of direct health services funded through the Social Insurance Fund. In 1992, the Social Insurance Fund was divided into a Health Insurance Fund and a Pension Insurance Fund, which became self-governing the following year. It was nationalised again in 1998, and is supervised by a secretary of state of the Ministry of Finance. The compulsory social insurance system covers the whole population and provides practically a full range of services with a marginal role for supplementary insurance. The government controls and supervises the health care delivery system, but ownership is mixed, with dominance of local municipality and state ownership. (Ministry of Welfare, 1997a; WHO Regional Office for Europe, 1999a). The social insurance schemes are financed by employers’ and employees’ payments. For the health insurance system in 1998, the employer’s payment was 11% of the total income plus a monthly lump-sum payment of Ft 3900 (approximately 5.7% of average gross salary), and the employee’s payment was 3% of the total income. Self-employed people pay a similar overall proportion of their total income, and the public sector covers the payments for unemployed people. Health insurance covers all costs related to health check-ups, primary, secondary and tertiary care, deliveries, emergency medicine and blood transfusions. Pharmaceuticals, medical aids, dental care and rehabilitation are also included in the insurance scheme, but out-of-pocket payments are always required. Compensation is paid in case of leave [Seite 33] because of sickness, maternity or occupational disease, or accident (Vogler & Habl, 1999). [...] Despite some additional improvements in the financing system, there were still incentives to over-provision: for example, people tended to continue being referred to inpatient and specialist care rather than being treated in outpatient and primary care settings. International comparisons of health care expenditure are extremely difficult because the definitions underlying health statistics as well as accounting practices vary from one country to another.