Until the mid-1990s there were reference prices for drugs in the same therapeutical equivalence groups, and in 1996 a list of drugs, which are not entitled to reimbursement, was introduced. In addition, there used to be restrictions on the increase of the budget for prescribed drugs, but in 1997 this budget was abolished along with the budget for ambulatory expenditures. There are plans to introduce a positive list of reimbursable pharmaceuticals (Schulenburg 1994, European Parliament 1998). Hospital care Since ambulatory services and hospital care used to be separated, and hospitals did not run outpatient clinics, patients used hospitals almost exclusively for inpatient care. Since the mid-1990s, however, hospitals have been able to perform day surgery on an outpatient basis. Hospital care is dependent upon referral by a general practitioner or a specialist. The care is free for children and pensioners. Other patients have to make a minor contribution, which has been increasing in recent years (OECD 1992, European Parliament 1998). Historically hospitals were paid on the basis of a per diem agreed between the hospitals, sickness funds and the Länder. This scheme, along with the separation between ambulatory and hospital care, is thought to have been responsible for the longer hospital stays in Germany than elsewhere in the EU and increasing costs for hospital care. Therefore, a series of reforms were started in 1994. Hospitals now receive a remuneration, which consists of three parts: a general per diem typically covering food and lodging, a wardspecific compensation for additional resources spent in a given hospital department (e.g. in intensive care), and lump-sum remuneration for standardized treatment procedures (European Parliament 1998) Compared to other EU countries Germany has not been very successful in reducing the number of hospital beds, and in the mid-1990s Germany still had the highest numbers of acute beds per 1000 population in the EU (OECD 1995b). Wide regional disparities persist, e.g. in 1992 there were 6.5 beds per 1000 population in Schleswig-Holstein, but 10.6 in Bremen and 11.0 in Berlin (Statistisches Jahrbuch 1994).