General practitioners There are no limits for the use of ambulatory care services, and most of them are free at the point of delivery. Furthermore, insured people can choose their physicians, but they have to use the services of one general practitioner at least for three months. After this period (and every such quarter), a new physician [Seite 39] can be chosen (Iglehart 1991a). Insured persons aged 35 years or more can have a health check-up carried out every two years, primarily in order to detect CVDs, kidney diseases and diabetes (Federal Ministry of Health 1997a). Both generalists and specialists carry out primary care. In 1995, some 60% of the primary health care physicians were specialists. There is a predominance of self-employed doctors in private single practices, although associations between two doctors are becoming more common. In order to treat members of the sickness funds, doctors must belong to the local regional association of ambulatory care doctors, which acts as paymasters for them. In general, primary health care physicians control access to hospital care, and sickness fund patients are normally refereed to the nearest hospital. However, the general practitioners do not have a strict role as a gatekeeper, since patients can also go directly to specialists (OECD 1992, Moran 1992, Federal Ministry of Health 1997b). Primary care physicians are paid on a fee-forservices basis, where the fees are adjusted to prenegotiated regional budgets using a complex calculation according to a uniform value scale on region by region basis. There have been discussions to change the system to be based on capitation, i.e. fixed amount per person (OECD 1992, Schulenburg 1994). Primary health care nurses Nursing care is provided by social stations funded by the public insurance companies and often run by religious organizations. Other health professionals are often involved as employees of the physicians. Community pharmacists There are no limitations on the total number of pharmacies. Like other countries, Germany has tried to control the use of medicine and to ensure their effective use.