While these initiatives are not likely to produce significant results overnight, with time they will provide a strong impetus for growth and development. [...] Through its global reach, the Internet provides an important opportunity for developing countries to obtain hitherto inaccessible and unaffordable information. The resulting knowledge transfer could stimulate growth of developing countries and help integration into world markets. However, many developing countries suffer from inadequate infrastructur and information technology. Government policies rendering access and equipment artificially expensive through monopolies and tariffs or other regulatory barriers can reinforce these problems. As a result, telecommunication infrastructure is often outdated, telephone and computer access is limited, prices are high [and service quality poor]. Qualified personnel are rare, computer literacy is the exception, and cultural and language barriers further impede communication. In some developing countries, telecommunication charges are 20 times higher then in the United States. Registration and online service charges for 20 hours per month online can be as high as annual per capita GDP. Waiting periods for telephone lines can reach several years. Even if connected to the Internet, users often only take advantage of e-mail as other applications are slow and unreliable, and thus become expensive. Building infrastructure and promoting access in developing countries may require a radical break with practices of the past, and a number of countries are taking on this challenge. [... FOLGENDER ABSATZ IN DER QUELLE WEITER OBEN AUF S.42 ZU FINDEN ] Another important element of equal opportunity in the information age is training. Internet use requires considerable computer skills. Schools in industrial countries today frequently provide computer training on a routine basis. But as familiarity with computers becomes more commonplace among the young, this accentuates the disadvantages faced by computer illiterates. Adult education is required to address this problem