Iraq Prime Minister must visit IS from the recapture of the Declaration to Iraq's high double・Abadi the Prime Minister 9, the extremist organization of the so-called"Islamic State"(IS)from the recapture of the strategy was done in Northern cities Mosul visited. The US-led coalitions of the willing by air strikes with the help of the Iraqi army,last year 10 month 17 days to recapture operation was started. The IS, the Iraqi national Islamic Sunni dominated most of the areas placed under the control of, 2014, after 6 months to Mosul to occupy. Iraq and Syria to"the Caliphate state"of the establishment declared. Long into a war of attrition, a Kurdish troop operating system guard and Sunni Arab tribes,Shia militias were also participating. The Prime Minister's statement, as the Prime Minister in Mosul IS against the final victory"about the military and Iraqi people to the celebration, said that"for the city PM said. Abadi the Prime Minister,"victory is assured, (IS of)remnants have been under siege. Our country and the great victory to announce only a matter of time,"he said. The streets of the city, the buddy of the Prime Minister celebrate the arrival of people there was a figure. But the Prime Minister is the formal victory Declaration speech have not already done so. The Prime Minister, the government,Mosul old town near the slightly to the left IS the combatants is mopping until a formal victory Declaration, however, does not have any plans to. Air strikes and a gun battle broke out in 9 days continue,the town in the sky above the smoke on that. Is is in Mosul, even if defeated・to-access file, such as the Western Anbar province with 3 towns, including controlled areas remains, and IS fully mopping it or not. Government control of the region against the bomb attack is also possible. The Iraqi government this year 1 month in East Mosul freed and declared a twisty narrow road with a lot of Western control is the supply. Support groups by and,since 2014, before the battle begins of the population for about half of the approximately 90 million people live in have lost. Mosul is a certain victory is declared, the international aid organization"Save the children"children of violence"under extreme conditions and in front of people who love to kill memory to be tormented"with mental suffered a heavy blow and warned. The organization, Iraq Office representative of Locsin says,"children and families experience fear and overcoming life for psychological support is essential,"he said. "But at the moment each country of the Mind, Health to almost nothing funds not provided". France's Emmanuel・Macro-President 9 days,Mosul retaken welcome,coalitions of the willing to join the French military, including soldiers・combatants from praised. The UK's Michael Fallon defense Minister also Abadi to the Prime Minister's congratulatory speech said,"Mosul from the death cult to wipe out of help for coalitions of the willing in the UK is a leading role,"he said. The European Union (EU) of the categories・the Foreign Affairs and security policy High Representative(foreign Minister)and the European Commission of the list and a system access data access humanitarian aid and Crisis Management Committee is a joint statement,"(IS) from Mosul to retake Iraq part of the region by terrorists rule to end,to free the people, the decisive step was,"he said. They are also"people's feedback, and between different societies of restoring confidence"appealed to. 