The extent of the brain edema was analysed by comparing the relative thickness of the cortex on the left side (trauma side) in relation to the opposite side (untraumatized) in HE stained slices. While the CCI group and the polytrauma group were not significantly different from each other regarding the brain edema, the difference between these two groups and the Fx-Shock group was significant. This finding suggests that there is no clear influence of the peripheral bony fracture with hemorrhagic shock on formation of the brain edema following concomitant traumatic brain injury. However, these results should be interpreted with caution and consideration of the fact that the contralateral (untraumatized) side could have some swelling from a generalized posttraumatic edema. As brain edema could also occur following peripheral trauma without direct interruption of the blood brain barrier (Stahel and Ertel, 2004), generalized bilateral brain edema in the Fx-Shock group cannot be excluded by this method. Using the Nissl coloration, a descriptive evaluation of the neural damages was performed. This included the pyramidal cell structure and the general cell architecture of the cortex as well as in particular hypoxia and trauma sensitive regions of the cornu ammonis of the hippocampus. As described in the literature, also in the present work a loss of vital emerging neurons and breaking-up of the cortical cell organization is observed following the induction of the traumatic brain injury. This loss characterizes pathophysiological sequences after traumatic brain damage (Asano et al., 1989; Hallam et al., 2004; Kontos and Povlishock, 1986). The histopathological changes within the hippocampus comply with the findings of hypoxaemia and trauma induced damages resulting in selective pycnotic neurons. The observation of partly severe damaged neurons in the CA3 region is in line with the literature regarding described variations in the form of selective loss of neurons in the CA3 region comparable to similar traumatic brain injury models (Smith et al., 1995). Animals of the Fx-Shock group showed only partial changes which could be attributed to the damages due to the influence of the hemorrhagic shock on the cerebral perfusion, in spite of the centralization of the blood circulation. The GFAP staining is used for the assessment of the reactive astrocytes and therefore also for the evaluation of degenerative and regenerative processes of the brain. While generalized diffuse symmetrical reactive gliosis on both cerebral hemispheres and hippocampus is described after a comparable experimental traumatic brain injury model (Smith et al., 1995), in the present setting the gliotic reactions were asymmetrical and more severe on the trauma side than contralateral. Asymmetrical gliosis has also been described by other studies which found distinct astrogliosis solely on the affected side of the cortex (Cortez et al., 1989). In the present study, significant differences between the different experimental groups are evident. The highest density of the reactive astrocytes was observed at the traumatized side of the cortex and in the hippocampus on both sides. The strongest gliotic reaction was always exhibited of the animals from the polytrauma group followed by the animals of the CCI group. As expected the animals in the Fx-Shock group showed only a low percentage of reactive astrocytes in the cortex.