

Another difficult day for Downing Street is on the cards, if the front of Sunday's papers are anything to go by.
A number of them say Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson is readying himself to take over the top job, with backing from senior cabinet colleagues.
But Mr Johnson has tried to put the rumours to bed on Twitter, calling them "tripe".
The Sunday Times says "the vultures are circling", whilst Andrew Rawnsley in the Observer writes: "Britain has a zombie prime minister. No one won this election, but everyone can see who lost it."
In the Sunday Telegraph, Simon Heffer writes: "The May Regime is moving from the present to the past tense."
The Mail on Sunday believes that the pre-election government and its policies are "finished for good", and, because Mrs May "cannot go... others must suffer publicly on her behalf".
Tony Parsons in the Sun on Sunday says Jeremy Corbyn "gave hope to a generation who have been starved of hope".
And in an interview with the Sunday Mirror, the Labour leader himself says: "We can still do this. I'm ready for another general election."
This weekend, says the Sunday Express, Mrs May must ask herself "what went wrong and how to repair the damage".
Offering answers to such questions - or just taking stock of events - is what the Sunday papers do.
The Sunday Mirror says: "The Tory general election campaign was being run by clowns."
A campaign source tells the Sunday Times: "What cost us this election was the manifesto" - adding a criticism for campaign strategist Sir Lynton Crosby: "A Conservative Party ought to have some conservative policies."
The party, says Peter Hitchens in the Sunday Mail, is "just a cold machine which runs on gallons of expensive snake oil."
As for Mrs May, she is portrayed by the Sun on Sunday as "a robot", "mechanical" and as "the Maybot". She was "wooden", adds the Sunday Mail, whilst the Observer calls her "chilly" and "brittle".
Whoever takes over, says the Sunday Telegraph, will have to be a "a communicator".
A cartoon in the Mail on Sunday shows two Conservative workers discussing the election. One says: "The campaign went wrong on two occasions... first when Mrs May didn't show up, and then when she did."
And now? A drawing by Gerald Scarfe in the Sunday Times portrays her slumped, like a discarded puppet, on the pavement outside a betting shop.
She is "The Gambler, ruined". In a final act of indignity, a dog - with Mr Corbyn's face - cocks its leg against her.
The Sunday Times is also one of several papers which tries to understand "the security and intelligence" lapses that allowed the London Bridge attacks to happen.
According to the Observer, the security services had "reliable, well-sourced material" about all three attackers, yet they slipped through the net. Experts tell the paper that it is more a case of knowing too much, rather than knowing too little.
The Daily Star on Sunday looks at the possibility that the removal of steel railings on London Bridge - when Boris Johnson was Mayor of London seven years ago - might have made pedestrians more vulnerable to the attackers in their van.
And a doctor tells the Sunday Telegraph how silent the victims were arriving at his A and E department for treatment.
Times change, it seems, as the Mail on Sunday reports that a pressure group has re-written the nursery rhyme, Old Macdonald's Farm, to reflect the reality of modern agriculture.
In this version, the farmer's a woman, and instead of a quack-quack here and an oink-oink there, on that farm she had a drone, yo-yo-yo-yo-yo. It says: "She flew it here, she flew it there, checked the farm from in the air."