

The front pages of the Times, the Telegraph and the Daily Mirror all feature the same photograph of Youssef Zaghba, who has been named as the third London Bridge attacker.
All three papers say he told police in Italy he "wanted to be a terrorist" - and claim the warning was ignored by MI5.
A security source has told The Times that pan-European databases are not being used to their potential - "particularly by the UK."
The paper says MI5 will be told to overhaul its system for assessing suspects if Theresa May wins the election.
The Guardian highlights Tuesday night's pledge by Theresa May to change human rights laws, to make it easier to tackle terror suspects. It sees the move as a "last-ditch intervention" - designed to "gain control over the security agenda" ahead of the election.
According to the Daily Mail, the proposed measures would mark a return to a system closer to the restrictive control orders, which were scrapped in 2011.
It says Mrs May's remarks suggest she will "look at ways around the rules" of the European Convention on Human Rights, which Britain will remain signed up to until 2022.
Meanwhile, former shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper has told the Daily Mirror that Mrs May faces some "hard questions" about what Britain should do to tackle terrorism.
She believes Mrs May made a "mistake" by scrapping Labour's control orders when she was in charge of the Home Office, and says it is "so shocking" that she won't rule out further cuts to the police.
Ms Cooper complains that "all we are getting from the Prime Minister is the same old rhetoric." Instead, she says, "we need new action."
Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning
The Daily Express claims to have obtained exclusive access to the CV of Khuram Butt, another of the London Bridge attackers.
It says he got a job with London Underground four months after he appeared in a television documentary about British jihadists, and "boasted" how he had been put in charge of passenger safety.
The Daily Telegraph reports that Butt was arrested earlier this year, after he attacked an anti-extremist Islamic scholar - "but was let off with a caution."
It also says his fellow London Bridge attacker, Zaghba, was "only" radicalised when he moved to east London in 2015.
The Daily Mirror has a profile of the third attacker, Rachid Redouane, who used to live in the Irish Republic. It says police believe jihadis based in Ireland are travelling into the UK "by exploiting the soft border with Northern Ireland."
An editorial in the Sun puts part of the blame for the recent attacks at the door of major internet firms, arguing "the fact they still host extremist sermons is the last straw."
It urges companies including Google, YouTube and Facebook to hire "far, far more moderators" to remove dangerous content.
With the election just one day away, Conservative-supporting papers use their editorials to urge their readers to vote Tory.
The first nine pages of the Daily Mail are devoted to cataloguing what the paper sees as the "compelling reasons" why Britain would be "insane" to vote Labour on Thursday.
For the Telegraph, "it is a time for stability, not a reckless gamble" - while the Sun believes support for UKIP would be a waste, as the party "no longer serves any purpose".
Jeremy Corbyn has given an eve-of-election interview to the Mirror, in which he promises to "do something special tomorrow."
He claims only a Labour government can "rescue the country" from five more years of austerity, and defends his party's manifesto as "all very realistic."
The lack of debate about the economy during the election campaign is, for the Financial Times, a "striking and disturbing omission."