Acrobat death fall at Mad Cool festival in Madrid

An acrobat from Brighton has died after reportedly falling 100ft (30m) during a stunt at a rock festival in Spain.
Specialist in aerial dance Pedro Aunión Monroy, was suspended in a cage during the Mad Cool festival in Madrid, on Friday night.
While near the main stage, in-between the performances by alt-J and Green Day, he fell.
Paramedics spent 30 minutes trying to revive him, but were unable to save him.
Mr Monroy from Portslade, who trained in the schools of Pilar López, Cristina Rota and in the Royal Conservatory of Dance, had his own performance company, In Fact Aerial Dance, based in Brixton, London.
He also worked as a self-employed massage therapist at The Grand Hotel, Brighton.
Speaking to the BBC, the hotel's general manager Andrew Mosley said: "We are all very sad to hear the news, it is the most terrible news and our hearts go out to his friends and family."
He added the sports masseur enjoyed half marathons and was a very popular member of the staff.
Just a few days before the festival, he posted a picture and a last message on Facebook of himself and his partner which said "love, come to my arms".
The festival organisers did not initially inform the audience or the bands the fall was fatal because of "security reasons" and around 40 minutes after, Green Day took to the stage for their set.
Tweeting after their performance Green Day said: "We just got off stage at Mad Cool Festival to disturbing news. A very brave artist named Pedro lost his life tonight in a tragic accident. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family and friends."
It is unclear at this stage what happened with Mr Monroy's equipment which caused him to fall.
We just got off stage at Mad Cool Festival to disturbing news. A very brave artist named Pedro lost his life tonight in a tragic accident
End of Twitter post by @GreenDay
Slowdive, which was due on stage after Green Day, suspended its performance, saying: "Due to the tragic accident in Mad Cool this night we feel it is not appropriate to play. Our thoughts are with those affected."
A statement on the 45,000-ticket sell out festival's website from directors Javier Arnaiz and Farruco Castromán reads: "Mad Cool Festival regrets the terrible accident that the aerial dancer suffered during the second day of the festival.
"For security reasons, the festival decided to continue with its programming. We send our most sincere condolences to all his family.
"Tomorrow Saturday 8, during the festival, we will render a heartfelt tribute to the artist."
The mayor of Madrid, Manuela Carmena, has also tweeted to say she was sorry to hear of the death and sent "a loving embrace to your family, friends and colleagues".