Back cover・Trump,the G20 summit in the US government representative to the seat of the German Hamburg will open in 20 major countries and regions summit(G20 summit)is the official meeting spot,Donald Trump President the daughter of a banker・Trump is the father instead of the U.S. Representative seat this strange,highly unusual and has been noted. Social media is a critical opinion that copyright holders do not want this video to be on display, please send me. The banker, Mr. in the past in the White House,Canada's Justin Trudeau Prime Minister and Angela Merkel the German Chancellor and Summit of place in the present. 8 day of the G20 summit of African immigrants and health issues to discuss, when Trump is the Indonesian version of co・President Widodo and individual talks for the entire session. That seat instead of the back he sat,the・the British Prime Minister and XI Jinping・Chinese President and seats lined up. The banker says the presidential aide's title is given, at the summit, the President seats open when Cabinet-level officials are to act on behalf of the is usually. The summit was interviewed by BBC reporters,like this case in the memory talk. Device he said the meeting, to the contribution to the state was not. The main the Prime Minister and the President XI's while to sit in the back of Mr. how, a Russian delegation of officials tweet was revealed. This tweet is later deleted. Social media is the banker Mr. voters to elected officials is not to criticize the voice, as fashion brand management such as diplomatic negotiations of the SAT are eligible to play from the US to the opinion that many posted. 2 weeks ago in an interview"politics is not like that"and was talking to the banker, Mr.,major leaders alongside the state from the people also. On the other hand,his brother Donald Trump Jr. says,"the bunker is a few minutes sitting with this is that the left is"furious", then I have little alternative if you guys and glad of it?" It. Device he said prior to this 8, the women's entrepreneurship G20 organizers attended the event,German Chancellor Angela Merkel and International Monetary Fund (IMF) Christine Lagarde, the managing Director and had attended. 3 people 4 months in Berlin was opened in the G20 women's summit, the panel in attendance. The SPOT device he said,"the development of family much to help,"his father defended you. Women entrepreneurs regarding to the meeting on the 8th at the Trump,"the daughter of the banker and we're very proud,"he said. "My daughter, if she even is one. To tell you the truth, it is only her feet to pull that" the father of the President elected, along with the clan's business is Donald Junior and Eric Brothers took over. Device he said his own name that bears the fashion brand the assets of the carte Blanche trust to leave,the White House presidential aide jobs to the payroll without one. This personnel about the nepotism of Diba and criticism in which he spoke. The banker says 10 instead of the model as a short period of time after working for his father's company. "Trump・organizer application"as a member of the Trump hotel to expand the business, the brothers along with Business Development Vice President and became. The banker Mr. husband Jared Kushner, in his view, an administration of the presidential adviser for. 