[Seite 173] On 12 October 1914, the Germans established censorship for all pictures shot in the occupied territories. [Seite 174] The Germans worked out a propaganda strategy in their Flamenpolitik, and obviously film was a (small) part of these politics. In March 1915, it ordered that in the Flemish part of the country the titles and intertitles had to be in Flemish. Even a grammatical mistake would be considered an act of resistance and could lead to the removal of the film. Für die Flamen muss es ein angenehmes Bewusstsein sein, dass die praktische Gleichberechtigung ihrer Sprache, die sonst nur auf dem Papier stand, nun im Film und in allen auf das Kino bezüglichen Ankündigungen, durch die deutsche Verwaltung zur Durchführung gelangt ist.11 (‘It must be satisfying for the Flemish that the equal status of their language, existing so far only on paper, has now been put into practice by the German administration in film and in all the announcements relating to the cinema.’) One of it’s seven camera teams was active in Belgium. They made amongst others DER BESUCH DES FLÄMISCHEN NATIONALDICHTER RENE DE CLERCQ IM KRIEGSGEFANGENEN LAGER GÖTTINGEN (‘A Visit of the Flemish National Poet René de Clerq to the Prisoners of War Camp Göttingen’). The Flemish audience was directly targetted. The film was made on 18 November 1917, during a propaganda trip by the well-known poet and nationalist René Declercq at a Flemish prisoners of war camp. The Centraal Vlaamsch Propagandabureel, directed by Arthur Faignaert, distributed this film in Flanders. On 19 January 1918, a certain V. Schröder (linked to the Marine Corps in Flanders) wrote a confidential report for the chancellor. He made some suggestions about the way propaganda for the Flemish cause could be made in the Belgian army at the front and in the prisoner of war camps. For the prisoners, he suggested organizing unofficially public reading rooms, Flemish theater and screening of films. 11 H. Barkhausen Filmpropaganda für Deutschland im Ersten und Zweiten Weltkrieg, Hildesheim, 1982, p. 77 and p. 259.