[Seite 37] The Tsar’s attitude to cinema was ambivalent. On the one hand, he was a passionate photographer and was fascinated by the new technology. He created the title ‘court cinematographer’ and awarded it to at least five people, B. Matuszewski, K. von Hahn, A. Drankov, V. Bulla, and A. Khanzhonkov. These people and others created a cinematographic record of the Romanov family that was second to none among royalty.4 But Nicholas was not interested only in seeing himself and his family. Already in 1897 a special showing of films was organized for him in Livadia.5 He supported the ambitious venture, the making of OBORONA SEVASTOPOLIA (‘The Defense of Sevastopol’), by the Khanzhonkov studios in 1911 and twice personally awarded a medal to the owner of the film studio6, and he obviously encouraged film-makers to mark the tricentennial of the rule of the Romanovs by making celebratory films. During the difficult days of the war, which he spent at the Headquarters at Mogilev, he often found relaxa- [Seite 38] tion and entertainment in watching movies.7 On the other hand, he claimed to believe that cinema was plebeian and that it often violated good taste. Most histories of rerevolutionary cinema quote these sentences scribbled by Nicholas II on the margin of a police report in 1913: I consider that cinematography is an empty matter, which no one needs. It is even something harmful. Only an abnormal person could place this farcical business on the level of art. This is silliness, and we should not attribute any significance to such trifles.8 [...] Among many educated and half-educated people at the time, it was customary to talk about the new form of entertainment with a condescension bordering on disdain.9 Some saw in the cinema a danger to a legitimate form of art, the theater; others worried about the possible harmful effect of the cinema as a purveyor of pornography; and most people associated it with the unwashed masses, who in fact, did make up the bulk of the audience at this time. Apart from OBORONA SEVASTOPOLIA and a few other patriotic films which received support, the government made no positive intervention in the business of making films, for it did not consider the film industry worthy of support. [...] Censorship made a greater difference in the production of newsreels. 4 Idem, pp. 33-35. 5 Jay Leyda, Kino: A History of Russian and Soviet Film, New York: Collier, 1960, p. 22. 6 A.A. Khanzhonkov, Pervye gody russkoi kinematografii, Moscow: Iskusstvo, 1937, p. 7. 7 Leyda, pp. 90-91. 8 A Soviet scholar, A. Zil’bershtein, found this comment of the Tsar scribbled on a police report concerning the correspondence of a Duma deputy and an American movie making firm. N.A. Lebedev, Ocherki istorii kino SSSR, vol. 1: Nemoe kino, 1917-1934, Moscow: Iskusstvo, 1965, pp. 43-44. Also, Leyda, pp. 68-69. 9 On the attitude of intellectuals to film see N.M. Zorkaia, Na rubezhe stoletii. U istokov massovogo iskusstva v Rossii 1900-1910 godov, Moscow: Nauka, 1976, pp. 47-92.