[Seite 69] Shot/reverse shot seems also to have spread quickly, though not all filmmakers grasped it completely at first. [...] We might expect a balancing view of the daughter, but instead the next shot returns to the establishing view. [...] Without the intervening long shot, the two close views would create a standard shot/reverse shot. [Seite 71] The homecoming scene in THE BIRTH OF A NATION, in which the Little Colonel leans into the doorway to embrace his off-screen mother, is only the most famous case where a highly emotional scene is partially blocked in order to heighten its impact. Numerous other films of the era use similar techniques. [Seite 73] Film-makers also occasionally strove for the opposite effect, emphasizing facial expression by having actors move toward the camera while staring into the lens. [...] The effect goes far beyond the demands of narrative clarity; it functions to create a sense of menace. [...] Not surprisingly, then, we find characters staring into the lens in shot/reverse-shot situations during fights. [...] • Mirrors Perhaps one of the most conspicuous ways in which film-makers sought to strengthen the impact of scenes was by shooting into mirrors. In A.W. Sandberg’s 1917 Danish film, KLOVNEN (‘Clowns’), the hero is onstage with a large mirror that reflects an unseen curtain. The curtain rises to reveal his lover embracing another man (Fig. 14), at which point he smashes the mirror. Here the space of the scene is perhaps a trifle convoluted, but the revelation is dramatized by the centered mirror. [Seite 75] Mirrors, with their reversal of relations among objects, provided an obvious way of undercutting spectators’ understanding of scenes. • Lighting Changes in lighting practice during the 1910s have been studied quite extensively. The focus has been on the shift from general, flat lighting - mainly dependent on sunlight - to highly selective ‘effects’ lighting based on artificial light. [...] Instead, many film-makers quickly hit upon an occasional alternative to flat frontal lighting: stark backlit silhouettes. Many of the most striking films of the 1910s create silhouettes using available light, whether indoors or in the open air. [...] [...] ATLANTIS (August Blom, 1913) places its hero against a bright seascape in the shipboard scene. Léonce Perret’s early features L’ENFANT DE PARIS (1913) and ROMAN D’UN MOUSE (‘Tale of a Cabin Boy’, 1914) contain several famous examples of silhouette lighting against doors and windows. [...] By the middle of the decade, however, film-makers were creating somewhat comparable silhouette shots in the studio using artificial light. Forest Holger-Madsen’s 1915 Danish film, EVANGELIEDMANDENS (‘The Evangelist’), contains a complex set with a detailed miniature cityscape model outside the window.4 Careful backlighting creates several striking silhouette compositions. 4 Film History, Fig. 3.15, p. 64.