[Seite 30] [...] most early cameramen couldn’t get near enough to film any fighting, and so satisfied themselves with recording ‘the human side of the war’, showing troop movements, hospital scenes, and so on. As a result there was some disappointment in the war films when they were screened back home. During the Balkan Wars, Bioscope noted that ‘the manner in [Seite 31] which the Bulgarian troops conducted their toilet has certainly a quaint interest, but it scarcely constitutes an historic event in the Balkan crisis!’9 Another important change in this period which made war filming more difficult was the unsympathetic attitude of the authorities of various countries. During the Boer War the chief press censor, Lord Stanley, wrote one report saying, ‘It will be a question in any future war whether or no the Army is to be followed by photographers and cinematograph agents.’ Another officer stated more emphatically, 'Biograph workers should be excluded’. One reason for this attitude was that British officialdom considered the new film medium somewhat vulgar. [...] Documents in the Public Record Office in London show the British government’s continuing doubts about war filming. A proposal by the Warwick Trading Company to make an official film of the Turco-Italian War in 1911 was turned down flat. The following year Pathé and Gaumont applied for press accreditation for filming the Balkan Wars, but, even though the Foreign Office vouched for all press correspondents, both Pathé and Gaumont were refused as unsuitable. [...] Other governments were more direct in opposing war reporting and filming. There was very heavy censorship during the Balkan Wars. A Pathé operator, M. Laventure, who accidently strayed into the Bulgarian lines was promptly arrested. The Turkish side were less rigorous, but still stopped several cameramen in the act of filming, including Sir Bryan Leighton and Kenneth Gordon. By 1913 the Balkan governments were excluding almost all of the press, and the only operators who succeeded in recording the war in this period appear to have been those who had some degree of official approval (like Robert Schwobthaler with the Greeks and the Bulgarian cameraman Alexander Jekov).11 Fakes Faced with all the difficulties of filming warfare in this period, one major strategy employed by the film companies was faking. The first war to be filmed, the Greco-Turkish [Seite 32] (1897), was also the first to be faked - by Georges Méliès (incidentally, one of the Méliès fakes of this war has been rediscovered in the Will Day Collection, at the Centre Nationale de Cinématographie). [...] The most extensively faked war in this period was the Boer Conflict. Fakes were made in France, America, Holland, Ireland and Britain. Such Boer fakes were not always very convincing. A trade journal was asked how real war films could be distinguished from fakes and described one of the latter: There is a hand-to-hand encounter between Boers and British, all realistic in its way, but the effect is somewhat spoilt by reason of the fringe of an audience appearing on the picture occasionally. 9 Bioscope, 5 December 1912, p. 715. Telephoto lenses were to be of some help in capturing action on film, especially as used by Pathe in the Balkan Wars. 11 See my article: 'In time of War’, Sight and Sound, September 1993, pp. 30-33.