[Seite 175] In March or April 1918, a Film-Kommissie was established at the Gouw Antwerpen. This committee planned not only the screening of films but also film production and distribution. At the end of August, the military police in Antwerp gave authorisation to film in the presence of a military observer. Local production and German films would be distributed under a cover (Flandria Films). According to the Film-Kommissie, scripts had already been delivered by famous authors such as Lode Baeckelmans and Paul Van Ostaijen, but no funds came from the Centraal Vlaamsch Propagandabureel in Brussels.13 The intelligence officer Oberleutnant Picht, who was also in charge for spreading Flemish propaganda in the prisoner camp at Courtray a few miles behind the front, presented his proposals for the organization of the Flemish propaganda on 12 August 1918. One of the media he took into account was cinema. He explained that the history and the landscape of Flanders were fortunate subjects and still underused by directors. [...] Two weeks later Hauptmann Staehle, intelligence officer of the 4th army in Belgium, wrote to the section for foreign affairs of the General Headquarters in Berlin. He stressed that the use of film was considered in Flanders (or by his office) as a very efficient means to propagate the Flemish movement in the world. The project he had in mind was the film DE LEEUW VAN VLAANDEREN (‘The Lion of Flanders’), to be shot in Courtray and its surroundings. [...] Also, at the (Belgian) prisoner of war camp, the activities of the Flemish soldiers who were active in propagating the Flemish cause could be filmed. According to Staehle, this would be easy because some of these prisoners had already worked for German propaganda and could be employed as extras. He even stressed that the costs for this film project would be low (a few actors and accessories...).14 [...] The general secretary of the Deutsch-Flämischen Gesellschaft in Düsseldorf, the lawyer Storky, corresponded at the end of March 1918 with Faignaert. Storky asked for support in realizing the project of producing the film . The book, written by Hendrik Conscience, set in the midst of the 19th century, is considered the romantic and mythical basis for Flemish nationalism. [Seite 176] Storky’s plans were to contact UFA in Berlin. The production had to become the Flemish national film: [...] Dabei bedarf es gar keiner Frage, dass dieser Film ausschliesslich anti-französisch und darum in deutschen Sinne wirken würde.16 [...] [...] The centrepoint of the film was the battle at Courtray where the Flemish defeated the French nobility in 1302. [...] Maximilian Moris, working for the German theater, was asked to be the director of the film. He had a reputation as a famous German stage director. The proposed actors included personalities from the German theater and also well-known Flemish people. The technical equipment would be borrowed from BUFA. However, the German authorities seemed reticent because a film company from Berlin had already laid plans for the same film, and having so many people in the war zone around Courtray could attract spies.17 11 H. Barkhausen Filmpropaganda für Deutschland im Ersten und Zweiten Weltkrieg, Hildesheim, 1982, p. 77 and p. 259. 14 ARA-Brussels, Archief van de Raad van Viaanderen, D65 (Filmkommissie). 16 Les Archives du Conseil de Flandre, Brussels: Ligue Nationale pour l’Unité Belge, 1928, pp. 372-400; Het Toneel, 4 May 1918; The Deutsch-Flämische Gesellschaft was founded on March 21, 1917, in Germany to facilitate the relations between Germans and Flemish, for instance between Flemish workers and prisoners of war in Germany. ARA-Brussels, Archief van de Raad van Viaanderen, D105. 17 ‘Het aktivistisch avontuur’, p. 280. For a biography of Jan Wannijn, see Flamenpolitik, p. 312.