[Seite 190] Butchers refused to sell the Russian meat because it lowered the prices. This gave rise to a revolt of mainly women customers, who beat up some of the butchers and plundered their stalls.5 It is important to bear in mind that the pressure to open the market sometimes came from the bottom. [Anm.: Satz bei Uo ausgelassen] The direct action of women in food riots was a new form of political expression. Animosity between housewives and butchers had a long-standing tradition in reality before it eventually made its way into the scenario of DIE FREUDLOSE GASSE (‘The Joyless Street’, 1925). Many myths evolved around the meat problem and made their way into literature. Upton Sinclair’s The Jungle, for example, was translated into German in 1906 and triggered off a widespread fascination with the Chicago packing houses as one of the most powerful symbols for the inhuman and pitiless regime of capitalism. The fictional character of the Chicago porkpacker Graham was introduced in satirical collections of correspondence with his son ‘Piggy’.6 In the 1920s, Bertolt Brecht used the Chicago packing houses as a setting for his plays Im Dickicht der Städte: Der Kampf zweier Männer in der Riesenstadt Chicago (1927) and Die Heilige Johanna der Schlachthöfe (1932) where he named one of the meat packers Graham. Brecht, like others, associated the theme with the prostitution of women. Women in need sell their flesh for meat - this overlapping imagery corresponded to the role women took in food riots. For German travellers to the USA the Chicago packing houses were among the most popular sights, together with Ford’s car factories and Hollywood, the dream factory.7 [Anm.: Satz bei Uo ausgelassen] From the turn of the century, many anxieties focused around the issue of an [Seite 191] ‘American threat’ to German economy and industry which was discussed in numerous publications. The fictional meatpacker Graham of Chicago became one of the icons of American mercantilism. He made his reappearance as a central figure in Alfred Bratt’s novel Die Welt ohne Hunger (‘The World without Hunger’), which was published in Berlin in 1916.8 The book and its author are completely forgotten and hardly mentioned in any literary history today. In its day, it was popular enough to be filmed, and the cover of the novel depicting a riot of raggy women in front of skyscrapers was used for advertisement in the trade journals.9 The film DIE WELT OHNE HUNGER based on the novel was released in 1920 by Amboss-Film, Dworsky & Co.10 Like many films from the silent era, it is not known to have survived. However, the large number of empty cans should not be forgotten by film historians. [Anm.: Satz bei Uo ausgelassen] Die Welt ohne Hunger is a particularly striking example of how the theme of feeding the masses was worked through in literature. The novel was published in the same year as the Kriegsernährungsamt was founded, but the text does not refer to the War explicitly. However, a great deal of current concerns and anxieties were concentrated in Alfred Bratt’s imaginary world hunger relief project based on the invention of a food substitute shaped like a stock cube. Alfred Bell, a self-trained chemical scientist of unspecified national origin who strongly believes in the masses, attempts to bridge the gap between capitalism and proletariat. His social utopia of a ‘world without hunger’, after failing in Europe, comes to a dramatic realization in the USA. 5 For a vivid account of this incident see Thomas Lindenberger, ‘Die Fleisch-Revolte am Wedding: Lebensmittelversorgung und Politik in Berlin am Vorabend des Ersten Weltkriegs’, Manfred Gailus and Heinrich Volkmann, Der Kampf um das tägliche Brot: Nahrungsmangel, Versorgungspolitik und Protest 1770-1990, Opladen: Westdeutscher Verlag, 1994, pp. 282-304. 6 George Horace Lorimer, Letters of a Self-made Merchant to his Son: Being the Letters Written by John Graham, Head of the House of Graham & Company, Porkpackers in Chicago, Familiarly Known on Change as ‘Old Gorgon Graham’ to his Son, Pierrepont, Facetiously Known to his Intimates as ‘Piggy’, Leipzig: Tauchnitz, 1903 (Collection of British Authors, vol. 3684); George Horace Lorimer, Old Gorgon Graham: More Letters from a Self-made Merchant to his Son, Leipzig: Tauchnitz, 1905 (Collection of British Authors, vol. 3798). Both books were also available in German translation. 7 Erhard Schütz, ‘Fließband - Schlachthof - Hollywood: Literarische Phantasien über die Maschine USA’, Erhard Schütz (ed.), Willkommen & Abschied der Maschinen: Literatur und Technik - Bestandsaufnahme eines Themas, Essen: Klartext, 1988, pp. 122-143. 8 Alfred Bratt, Die Welt ohne Hunger, Berlin: Erich Reiß Verlag, 1916. Quotations from the novel in the following are my translations from the 10th edition (1917?). 9 Der Film, no. 45 (1919), pp. 142-143. 10 DIE WELT OHNE HUNGER (1920): Amboss-Film Berlin, 6 reels, 2055m; script by Paul Rosenhayn and Harry Heymann, based on the novel by Alfred Bratt; director: Arthur Wellin; camera: Otto Kanturek; actors: Ernst Stahl-Nachbaur, Sybill de Brée, Paul Kammauf, Carl Richter, Hans Heterich, Franz Evert. The film opened on 23 April 1920 at Richard Oswald-Lichtspiele, Berlin.