[Seite 142] The use of Porten’s name points to the star’s popularity among soldiers as well as the civilian population, [...] The comedies and melodramatic films in which they starred, and in which most German firms had specialized after making a series of patriotic films in the war’s first year, were also in demand in the neutral countries, in preference to the war newsreels BUFA supplied. The Reich recognized the importance of cinema-going to maintaining German civilian morale the longer the war dragged on and the scarcer basic goods became: despite severe shortages in 1917, the cinemas were given priority to receive electricity and coal. [Seite 143] From the outset, the war provided producers of non-fiction and fiction films a visually spectacular and emotionally gripping subject. Because the topic was of pressing current interest and deemed a socially acceptable subject also for the middle and upper classes, [...] Audiences who came for the newsreel stayed for the feature. [...] New firms sprang up to meet the increased demand for German movies; as the war wore on, several well-capitalized production companies bought up weaker ones and, following the model of American, French, and Danish companies, reorganized into vertically integrated companies. By 1916, these large corporations had jointly instituted a monopoly system of regional sales and block booking of film series.14 These film series, which often formed the core of a film company’s offerings and represented its most effective marketing strategy, were predominantly organized around the figure of a star, thus, for example, the Henny Porten series of 1915-1916 or the Asta Nielsen series of 1916-1917. Among the male stars of the period featured in series were director and actor Viggo Larsen, co-founder of the Danish film company Nordisk; Berlin comedic actor and later director Ernst Lubitsch; and, in the popular detective genre, Ernst Reicher and Max Landa, the first in more than forty films as a Sherlock Holmes-like character named Stuart Webb, the second as Joe Deebs in a spin-off series directed by Joe May. [...] These crucial economic developments preceded but also enabled the formation of UFA in December 1917, [...] 14 ‘Erstarkung’ und A. Czillard, ‘Das Geschaeft in Rheinland und Westfalen’, Kinematograph 525, 17 January 1917, 2.