North Korea's"satellite"launch in Korea is the"big pay"and warned the South Korean government on December 3, the North Korean"satellite"launch plan,"a high price to pay,"he warned. North Korea is a 2 Day, International Maritime Organization (IMO)for"satellite"this month 8 days to 25 days between launch and notification. From abroad, the de facto long-range ballistic missile firing of the experiment and of the blame-and-coming. The US government,North Korea's missile launch and inhibit the UN Security Council resolution to"obvious violation", and add the sanctions called for. North Korea has consistently 宇宙開発計画 IS for peaceful purposes and insists that you can Intercontinental ballistic missiles the development of have to. On January 1,the country's hydrogen bomb experiment and claim to conduct a nuclear test. 1 at the end of the rocket launcher, preparing what seems to us the most wary of all...... During a press conference in the South Korean presidential office of Zhao Taihu Jin Yong(Chung・New York)the National Security Office No. 1 Deputy Director of North Korea's launch plan as"the international community against the right of challenge"and criticism. "If North Korea long-range missile launch, if you run the Korean Peninsula and the surrounding region in the world, a serious threat,the international community is sure North Korea is a bigger price to pay would be,"he said. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,"a serious provocative act", and the concerned countries in cooperation with"strong self-control to ask,"he said. From the Chinese government is currently, Wu Dawei・the Korean Peninsula issue special representative Floral the. Chinese Foreign Ministry officials in South Korea Yonhap News told that 武氏 North Korea's senior officials and consultations will be. US government officials last week, North Korea in the Northwest of the village of Dongchang-ri, the (Chang) and of"the West Sea satellite launch site"in active movement, missile firing preparing for and seem to be pointed out that. Experts in North Korea since 1980 has been opened was of the Workers ' Party of Korea Convention, but the number of the month scheduled, and Kim Jong-UN, 1st Secretary of the nuclear program, trying to show out. North Korea is the most recent in 2012, and the 12 month"communications satellite"launch,on track and successful. The UN Security Council is a missile test forbidden to make resolutions,sanctions Department as. 