【British public vote】GBP volatility of the residual from the withdrawal from the reaction 英通 currency pound exchange rate is London time 23 days of trading have risen,last year 12 months for the first time since 1 pound = 1.50 dollars with. The UK is on the same day, conducted by the European Union (EU) withdrawal from or residual from a referendum in the residual faction is winning and the expectation of receiving. However, each vote counting center and announced the results to begin with, the breakaway faction are expected to significantly residual faction outperformed the region there are also,pounds to fall watching. Newcastle region, the residual faction is in the majority, the breakaway faction and the difference is less than expected for pounds decline. Furthermore, the Sunderland region in the breakaway faction is a residual faction that corresponds to a difference of over,pounds decline is accelerated. 23 evening, the withdrawal movement to promote the UK Independence Party(UKIP)of Nigel・a family business leader is"residual faction got away"remarks that the pound rose. ETX Capital's trading officer, Joe Rundle, said:"LBS is a big up and down for. Most were not such a situation. Black・download card time of pounds of the rate of decline was greater than"and speak. "The price level has misplaced even the market is also nervous. Investors who are a little carefree too. If withdrawal is decided that more movement is inevitable so". World・first's chief economist Jeremy Cook says,"Newcastle is a residual faction is close to victory pounds 強気筋 to the for not. Newcastle is the residual the big winners were supposed to,"he said. On the other hand in Canada, CIBC's Jeremy Stretch says, the turnover is very less for the fluctuation range is in fact larger than and may not be suitable for all investors. "Turnover is very less, the market is relatively illiquid so. The trader is a member, the moving of the pound is not the only"say. Last week, the remaining faction of inferiority that indicates the poll is a series of for pounds 1. 40 dollars down for. 23 day of the FTSE100 is the previous day closing ratio 1. 2%high of 6338. 10, the approximately 2-month highs for. Mines and banks, travel-related stocks were bought. US stock market also trading near the end of the stock is rising,Dow Jones Industrial 30 said on Friday he Average and the S