BBC the high reward of the performers to publicize the gender gap in female emcee from the rebound in the BBC annual report published along with high reward pay to the performer the name of the publication, and the gender wage gap becomes apparent,several prominent female emcee from disparities to seek an open letter to Tony Hall, the BBC Chairman had sent. The BBC is 19 days to publish an annual report. Along with this, the annual 15 million pounds (about 2200 million yen)more than getting a star cast (BBC reporter and presenter, including name) are also published. As a result, 15 million pounds more than someone who gets 3 minutes of 2 or more men and was revealed. Radio 2 DJ Chris Evans will be 220 million to 250 million pounds between the highest amount. The maximum amount of reward to obtain the female star, the 45 million to 50 million pounds to obtain Claudia・Winkle man I was. Justine・Green Cleaning and education phase, the BBC's gender wage gap is"justified or not"and criticism. The opposition・Labour's Jeremy Corbin the leader, the gap is"astronomical"and accused. Hall Chairman to disparities in seeking the open letter,"many many years ago from the doubt, it became clear that(omission) the BBC women are men and the same job even if the salary is less than men"and criticism,"a corrective"to the request. The President also"to work is quite advanced"I replied. A letter to the BBC Women presenters from more than 40 people signed. BBC Sports casters, Sue Barker,BBC Radio 4 of social・Hussain reporter and Sarah Montague reporter, BBC News, and"antique road show"of the caster, Fiona Bruce,"The・One・Show"Alex Jones each his name had been. Jones the reward of 40 million to 45 million pounds between. Bruce said 35 million to 40 million pounds. Barker is 30 million to 35 million pounds. The letter in addition, we published of a reward 15 million pounds more than us, and it's a BBC production and technology, provincial Department, such as working in the majority of the employees and the disparity is a problem and pointed out. "A lot of people as compared to We high rewards to getting lucky"and the letter continued,"but now the equality of the times, the BBC has their own values, pride in the organization,"said pointed out. "(President)by 2020, the gender wage gap is"not"to say, but the BBC is in-house wage gap many years ago from the grasp had. This is how we,the President to act now, please publicly request" women,"the next generation of women is such discrimination not faced by"Hall, Chairman of the Board and direct the meeting to be prepared and written. An open letter for women up to the BBC's longevity radio show"Women's Hour (woman's Hour)"presenter Jane Garvey said. Their is 15 million pounds or more of high rewards to those who are not included. Garvey says BBC Radio 4, against fair wages about the BBC is"the norm"should said. "We have the same amount of salary to ask for help, not asking for is fairness. Massive wages up to ask is not" "the BBC is a symbol that is one of the things I love. This wonderful organization skills of most across the UK, shows like" sports, well known Clair・ball wedding Mr. in 2010, the"Women's Hour"host after their compensation or other similar programs"compared to 4% in low"and noticed this from the BBC in the wage gap to worry about in the factory. "We have large rewards from the published list, however,(the BBC in the whole)and do not have the same end"and the group he is on the show talking. "The organization of the whole is so so, on we stood up,"wait a minute,like a lot. Cooperation and"let's go. Raise a voice lying," and "Astronomical" the British government's green cleaning, education, women and equal opportunities phase is 23 days, Sky News and appeared on the BBC of the gender wage gap in the"shocked, just about,"he said. The education phase is the BBC's"reputation problems"says, some of the wage gap to justify the"very difficult"and criticized. The Labour Party leader is the BBC's"Andrew・Machine・show", I willing a letter to sign, and the BBC is"looking at ourselves need,"he said. Corbin, Mr. on top of that, the problem is the BBC only discrimination in the United Kingdom and a"serious problem"and pointed. Program emcee Mark says the BBC receive from the compensation, is ¥ 40 million pounds ~ 44 million 9999 pounds between. If I was a woman, the"10 years ago"the TV much have been said. 57-year-old Manager says,"TV out Mature women are really less"and pointed. Next year will be"different numbers"in an open letter, the Hall Chairman the next 2 months"now more than ever wide range of consultation", the letter signed by the opinions of those who focus and answered. "Next year's annual report will announce when this is different from numbers not" "other organizations next year and 4 months in men and women wages to publish the data. Other organizations when we compare it to the BBC is the most qualified, would want to state. Even more than that, over the next 3 years, the BBC is gender and diversity and outstanding presence in the eyes of the want", the Chairman of the determination showed. 