But the House of Lords referred to the European Court of Justice the question of whether there was an 'overriding principle of Community law' that required national courts to secure effective interim protection for the applicants' rights in Community law. In answering this question affirmatively, the European Court of Justice applied the principle that directly applicable rules of Community law 'must be fully and uniformly applied in all the Member States from the date of their entry into force ... in accordance with the principle of the precedence of Community law'.70 This principle of Cammunity law rendered 'automatically inapplicable' any conflicting provision of national law. Any legal rule or judicial practice which might withhold from the national court the power to ensure the full effect of Community rules was contrary to Community law. Thus, any rule of national law that prevented a court from granting interim relief had to be set aside by that court. When the case came back to the House of Lords, the House had to consider in the exercise of its discretion whether to grant the interim relief which the European Court had held was within the power of the English courts; the House duly granted an injunction against the Secretary of State from removing the Spanish-owned ships from the register of British fishing vessels. On the main constitutional question, Lord Bridge rejected the view that the decision of the European Court of Justice was a novel and dangerous invasion by a Community institution of the sovereignty of parliament, saying: "If the supremacy of Community law over the national law of member states has not always been inherent in the EEC Treaty it was certainly well established in the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice long before the United Kingdom joined the Community. Thus, whatever limitation of its sovereignty Parliament accepted when it enacted the European Communities Act was entirely voluntary". [There] is nothing in any way novel in according supremacy to rules of Community law in those areas to which they apply and to insist that, in the protection of rights under Community law, national courts must not be inhibited by rules of national law from granting interim relief in appropriate cases is no more than a logical recognition of that supremacy."71 70 R. v. Secretary of State for Transport, ex parte Factortame Ltd. (No. 2)[1991] 1 AC 603, 643. 71 Ibid. 658-9; and see N. Gravells (1991) Public Law 180; and H. W. R. Wade (1991) 107 LQR 1.