Instead, the accession legislation went as far as was thought possible in instructing British courts how to apply Community law in the future. Earlier, in 1967, the opinion of the EC Commission on Britain's entry had been that an Act of Parliament could validly achieve a transfer to the Community of certain legislative powers" as required by the Treaty, 'with the consequences this entails for the legislative activity of Parliament, i.e. adoption of measures required by Community law, present and future; avoidance of measures incompatible with Community law'.53 Especially in the two words 'activity' and 'avoidance', this diplomatic statement was evasive on the key issues that we are considering. On 19 January 1972 the EC Commission gave its formal opinion on Britain's application for membership. It must be assumed that the Commission had already seen and approved the text of what was to become the European Communities Act 1972. Section 2 (1) of that Act gave effect within the United Kingdom to all rules of Community law which have direct application or direct effect within Member States. This applied both to existing and to future Community rules. By section 2 (4) it was, inter alia, provided that 'any enactment passed or to be passed, other than one contained in this part of the Act, shall be construed and shall have effect subject to the foregoing provisions of this section'- subject, in other words, to the comprehensive reception of Community law made by section 2 (1). Further, by section 3, questions of Community law were to be decided by the European Court of Justice or in accordance with the decisions of that Court, and all courts in the United Kingdom were required in future to take judicial notice of decisions made by the European Court. When these provisions were debated in Parliament, it was widely agreed that they did not exclude the possibly that the United Kingdom Parliament might one day wish to repeal the Act and thus effectively prevent the continued operation of Community law within the United Kingdom. In this sense the ultimate sovereignty of Westminster was not affected, as ministers admitted, even though they refused to allow a statement to this effect to be included in the Act.54