III In the second half of the nineteenth century, and particularly after the close of the Civil War, a number of new tendencies started to dominate the general development of historical study in the United States. Together with an increasingly critical attitude toward the sources went a general acceptance of evolutionary thought. Behind this stood the influence of the German historical school on the one hand and that of Darwinism on the other. One of the most important results of the new movement was the reform of the teaching of history in American universities [...] method and the establishment of what was called "the school of scientific history". [...] German historicism was never really integrated into American historical thought. It was only in the present century that the philosophical framework of nineteenth century German historiography began to be studied and appreciated in the United States. [S. 65] Again, this happened under a foreign influence, namely under that of the German refugee historians, many of whom had come from the school of Friedrich Meinecke. By the disciples of the American "scientific school" of the late nineteenth century Ranke was very highly praised, but his works were not widely read.1 To the study of European history in America, the rise of the "scientific school" did not bring immediate changes in outlook. The emphasis on the continuity of cultural heritage persisted, and the approach remained mainly chronological. To most students of the famous seminar at Johns Hopkins which, under the leadership of Herbert Baxter Adams, became the most important centre of the "scientific school", European history was of real interest only as long as it could be seen as a development preceding the Colonial period of North America. [...] Teutonism, now as a "scientific" thesis of historical continuity, was in full bloom. It flourished not only at Johns Hopkins, but also at Harvard, where the somewhat more critical Henry Adams had introduced the new methods of teaching and research, and at Columbia, where John William Burgess became one of its most outspoken advocates. [FN] 1 Jurgen Herbst, The German Historical School in American Scholarship, Ithaca, New York,Jurgen Herbst, The German Historical School in American Scholarship, Ithaca, New York, Cornell University Press, 1965, pp. 99-128. Cf. George G. Iggers, "The Image of Ranke in American and German Historical Thought", History and Theory 2 (1962)), pp. 17-40.