Russian hackers for the malicious program to discover the=rice of Vermont Electric Power Company 米北 the Eastern part of Vermont Electric Power Company, Burlington Electric Department company 12 months 31, the in-house laptop in,Russian hackers have used malicious program(malware). Is found and announced. Computer grids is to have found the net quickly from the environment outside the as. Burlington・Electric・Department company, the"malware of the specific power system is an intrusion into this more than that,Federal authorities worked with"announced. The company is Vermont authorities and also got in touch and expressed. The investigation in full cooperation with the policies and. The US government last week to 29, the officials"between the Grizzly・a step called"an act of attention to and for. The US government on the same day,the presidential race affect that cyber attacks and a US of Russian diplomat 35 people to deportation or. The US government,Democrats and twenty-seven-year-old election candidate was the former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton camp of a mail server in Russia hacked and blame, but Russia denies any involvement. U.S. government sanctions against Russia, the Ambassador to Russia of U.S. diplomats of deportation and other retaliation did not take. To that end, Donald Trump will be the next US President is 30 days, Russia's Vladimir Putin to praise tweeting about. Prior to this, the 31 date of the US newspaper The Washington Post or the anonymous muscle of a story as this to tell,the US power grid vulnerable(like) properties and pointed. According to the newspaper, the US authorities of Russian hackers power grid to target the reasons are still unclear and talking. The article is,"the intrusion is, the power supply to interfere with a grid on the part of the intrusion, you can try that and also been pointed out that". The article initially, the"Russian hackers is the US power grid broke into"and after"looks of it"not as authorities muscle to speak of and Correction, and hacked the computer is the grid one did and explained. "A systematic and relentless, and predatory" Vermont's Peter System Link Governor (the Democratic Party)such as the state's politicians, a thorough investigation was sought. System the link Governor is in the document,"the quality of life and economic health, safety support to end of grid,the world's leading rogues 1 person,Vladimir Putin is hacking as this is Vermont people and all of the American people is wariness and strong anger with someone,"he said. Peter Welch Congressman(Democratic Party)is,in this case"how the Russian cyber attacks, and that"showed and pointed. Russia's cyber attacks are"systematic and relentless, and predatory"and said. U.S. officials,in Ukraine to 2015 12 months during a major blackout in August was the cause of the cyber attack, the Russians were involved in that. At the time, about 22 million, 5,000 people is a power outage affected. Experts from Ukraine, according to the power outage is a cyber attack occurred in a power outage, as you can see the first examples of that. 