【US election campaign 2016】"and also recovered"and Clinton says the US election campaign of the Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton on the 12th, CNN in a telephone interview,your own physical condition as"very recovered,"he said. Clinton before New York made in U.S. of terrorist attacks memorial service Classic to leave the middle, then on the 9th of this month, pneumonia has been diagnosed with this and had revealed. Clinton is in an interview, pneumonia diagnosis immediately announced was,"this is not simply a thought from you,"he explained. Clinton said, 5 days rest all of the doctor's"clever"advice has been ignored, or told. Republican candidate Donald Trump, health election, and of the"one focus"was to argue that. Clinton CNN interview,"in a few days"campaigning to return, you can expect to have said. Clinton is in New York for the ceremony to leave when balance lost and acknowledged, it is not lost on said. He added,"the head is from a little between the balance lost,(in the car)boarded the bus and sat down the body with cool water, after drinking,immediately the mood is better,"he said. Doctors after the ceremony,Clinton is 9 days, a diagnosis of pneumonia had received and revealed. 11 the day of the affair until there is a pneumonia diagnosis published from the criticism coming. The Clinton camp spokesman also,good correspondence was acknowledged. Clinton's health concerns theory to dispel for a new medical records to publicize the policy. Clinton for the 9th Trump of the supporters of the half"deplorable people"and remarks, and criticism of the voice was. Trump 12, the Clinton early recovery I said. Trump's own health condition about last week, also received screening results and committed to. Trump is far,Clinton is the lack of physical fitness and repeatedly insisted. Last month, supporters of the rally, the Clinton to the President's fulfilling the duties of the"spiritual but physical stamina is not there,"he said. The Clinton camp is,Trump is Clinton's health"and conspiracy theories"have been, and the accused. <Explanation>Anthony・The Beach Reporter(Washington) 11 day of the 9/11 Memorial Classic at Hillary Clinton, but it was the political Achilles heel says. The Trump camp, Clinton physical condition of the media in long,silent from. The news itself is enough opponent to a disadvantage and feel funny. A 68-year-old Clinton, the health issue is especially a big concern to get the(70-year-old Trump so). However, Clinton is usually campaigning for dates without a hitch if the vehicle returns,and health concerns to converge the greater effect there would be. 