'The law stemming from the treaty, an independent source of law, could not, because of its special and original nature, be overridden by domestic legal provisions, however framed, without being deprived of its character as Community law and without the legal basis of the Community itself being called into question.'47 Community law thus creates specific obligations which bind Member States, and also individual rights which are enforceable in national courts. Member States through their governments participate in the complex procedures which take place before the Community decisions are made. It is evident that the Community legal order is inconsistent with the traditional doctrine of the sovereignty of Parliament. Thus, Dicey asserted that 'no person or body is recognised by the law of England as having a right to override or set aside the legislation of Parliament.48 In fact, United Kingdom law now recognizes that Community organs have the right to make decisions and issue regulations, which may have the effect of overriding legislation by Parliament. The supremacy or primacy of Community law within the economic or social areas with which it deals cannot stand comfortably alongside a simple version of national legislative supremacy. While the problem takes a special form in the United Kingdom, other Member States have experienced comparable difficulties in adjusting their own systems of constitutional law to take account of the requirements of Community law.49 Yet the European Court of Justice has continued to emphasize that the application of Community law should not be obstructed or delayed by obstacles at national level. In 1978, the Court stated: A national court which is called upon, within the limits of its jurisdiction, to apply provisions of Community law is under a duty to give full effect to those provisions, if necessary refusing of its own motion to -apply any conflicting provisions of national legislation, even if adopted subsequently, and it is not necessary for the court to request or await the prior setting aside of such provisions by legislative or other constitutional means.50 When Denmark, the Republic of Ireland, and the United Kingdom signed the Treaty of Accession in 1972 they were required to take appropriate steps to accommodate Community law within their legal systems. 47 Costa v. ENEL [1964], CMLR 425 455-6. 48 Dicey, Law of the Constitution, 40. 49 See J. P. Warner, 'The Relationship between European Community Law and the National Laws of Member States' (1977) 93 LQR 349. 50 Amministrazione delle Finanze dello Stato v. Simmenthal SpA (No. 2) [1978] 3 CMLR 263, 283, discussed in J. D. B. Mitchell [...]