[Seite 1204] Community Lost The Lost argument was the first sociological urban response to the Community Question (e.g., Tönnies [1887] 1955), and it is still significantly influencing the current debate.4 [...] It contends that the division of labor in these societies has attenuated communal solidarities. Primary relationships in the city now are “impersonal, transitory and segmental” (Wirth 1938, p. 12). Instead of being fully incorporated into a single solidary community, urbanites are seen as being limited members of multiple social networks, sparsely knit and loosely bounded. Their weak, narrowly defined, and disorganized ties are rarely available or useful for help in dealing with contingencies. Consequently, urbanites are now bound to the city by webs of secondary affiliations. [...] The argument’s emphasis on the alleged disorganizing effects of attenuated communal solidarities has been reflected in substantive accounts of such diverse areas as collective action, crime, migration, poverty, and suburbia ([...]).5 [Seite 1205] Community saved [...] In reaction, they have developed the Saved argument during the past 30 years, contending that neighborhood and kinship solidarities have continued to flourish in industrial bureaucratic social systems. The Saved argument asserts that such communal solidarities have persisted because of their continued efficacy in providing support and sociability, communal desires for informal social control, and ecological sorting into homogeneous residential and work areas ([...]). [...] [...] In the Saved argument, human beings are regarded as inherently gregarious, apt to organize communities under all circumstances. By the early nineteen sixties, the Saved argument had become the new orthodoxy, with the publication of such works as Gans’s (1962) study of an “urban village,” Greer’s (1962) theoretical development of postwar survey research, and Jacobs’s (1961) assertion of the vitality of dense, diverse central cities. 4 [...] 5 [...] Gans, Herbert. 1962. The Urban Villagers. New York: Free Press. Greer, Scott. 1962. The Emerging City. New York: Free Press. Jacobs, Jane. 1961. The Death and Life of Great American Cities. New York: Random House. Tönnies, Ferdinand. (1887) 1955. Community and Association. Translated by Charles P. Loomis. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul. Wirth, Louis. 1938. “Urbanism as a Way of Life.” American Journal of Sociology 44 (July): 3–24.