De system and compared President Obama to"to hell back"and drug trafficking, the killing of people to encourage, such as aggressive drug enforcement policy, to promote the Philippines of the de system and the President on the 4th, the US government criticism of the backlash,President Obama"lost the course"and said. Its use was literally"hell to fall behind"with PhraseBook was. De system and the President is 9 months, even Obama a"whore's son"and the meaning of the idioms in curse that. De system and the President in Manila, government officials and business officials before the speech,struggling with drugs to the United States to criticize a pity, US allies as not credible and saying. "This would, the State Department is the first to criticize that. So,Obama, the hell and good. Hell No,"he said. The US government as well as the hard-line Drug Enforcement have criticized the European Union (EU), the"hell is Packed so, purgatory(that I see)to chose better"and cursed. The President on the same day in addition, US weapons sale was rejected and revealed,"one is the United States and also to share what some. Russia and China had much more good,"he said. "They are selling the weapons that you don't want to,this is to go to Russia. Generals to Russia to dispatch it, Russia is"don't worry, you got that. All you"I say. China went on,"here to come sign if you want the whole thing delivered to"saying"and System President,the Alliance to consider changes as suggested. The White House, the Ernest press Secretary is de property of Mr. remarks against,"this Alliance is in the interests of both countries to the vitality of the US and Philippine governments to exchange information for the diplomatic route is open" And the Alliance of significance to emphasize on the one hand,"this powerful Alliance to protect them, the United States is extrajudicial in about the murder without hesitation concerns the voice of the CITES"and hammered. Of the Philippines Luzon is the US military and the Philippine military joint military exercises are begun. 8-day exercise,U.S. military personnel 1100 people over and Philippine soldiers 400 people to participate. Ernest press Secretary,"the bilateral relationship has brought great changes to and from the Philippine government's formal communication yet,"he said, the de system and the President 9 end of the month,their President, as long as the rice ratio joint exercises this is the last remark. In the Philippines the US military 増派 and agreed 2 years ago defense of the enhanced cooperation agreement, the review and also had expressed. U.S. ratio of Defense enhanced cooperation agreement, China's activities in the South China Sea to control the new US military strategy as an essential part of being. 