Overall cancer mortality in the female population aged 064 years, albeit decreasing, was still higher than the EU average, while that for lung cancer in this population group was just at the average, after one of the largest increases among the reference countries since 1980. Although considerable efforts have been made to prevent CVDs, the main risk factors (hypertension, heightened cholesterol levels, obesity) for these diseases were still highly prevalent in the early 1990s. Nutritional habits, especially the high intake of animal fats and protein, and relatively high alcohol consumption, may at least partly explain this situation. [Seite 37] Institutional structures and resources The foundations of insurance-based health care system in Germany were laid by Chancellor von Bismarck in 1883. The fundamental structure has remained more or less unchanged in the former territories of the Federal Republic until the 1990s. In contrast, the former GDR adopted publicly financed and provided services after World War II. In 1991, following unification, health services financing and delivery arrangements in the new Länder were radically reformed to match the arrangements in force in the other parts of the country. The Federal Government provides the regulatory framework for health care, but the Länder are responsible for providing health care. They are major suppliers of running capital investment costs in hospitals, they help fund both medical education and hospital construction, and they are one of the major owners of the hospitals (along with local governments and charities). The providers of health care services and purchasers (mainly the sickness funds) are strictly separated. The purchasers are decentralised, self-administered nonprofit sickness funds, which are financed by equal contributions from employers and employees. The employee's contribution is a fixed percentage of gross income (in 1997 averaged 13.3% and ranged from 9.0% to 15.3%) and independent of the health risk presented by the employee and of the employee's dependants. The unemployed are covered by a mandatory health insurance paid for by the state. In 1994, a financial compensation system a complex calculation based on age, gender and geographical factors of the insured