The incidence rates of syphilis, mumps and pertussis are among the lowest in the reference countries. The infant mortality rate has shown an impressive decrease. From being among the highest of the reference countries in the mid-1980s, it has decreased to below the average for the reference countries in 1998. The prevalence of smoking is the highest among the reference countries, with smoking rates among teenagers being particularly high. The SDR for lung cancer in the age group 0–64 years is the highest in the WHO European Region. The dramatic increase in Hungary’s SDR is of particular concern, since it was below the EU average in the 1970s but twice the EU average by 1998. Even though the consumption of alcohol has decreased in the 1990s, the annual consumption per person of 9.5 litres in 1996 equals the EU average and is one of the highest among the reference countries. The high consumption of alcohol is also reflected in the trend in the SDR for chronic liver disease and cirrhosis. [Seite 31] HEALTH CARE SYSTEM5 Hungary has a tradition of health services dating back to the eleventh century. The first public health act was passed in 1876, and social security and social insurance systems have a long history in Hungary. From 1948, the mixed-economy health care system was restructured to a centralized state model, in line with other sectors of the economy. The health care legislation adopted in 1972 confirmed that access to health services was a right linked to citizenship and promised comprehensive coverage free of charge at the point of use. However, since the system was underfunded it was unable to meet the level of demand. One consequence of this was that informal payments (gratitude payments) were common. Health care reform The need for health care reform became apparent in the 1980s, earlier than in the other reference countries. The governments regarded health care reform as essential [...] 5 This section is largely based on Health care systems in transition. Hungary (WHO Regional Office for Europe, 1999a).