Other natural causes of death The SDR for infectious and parasitic diseases dropped very sharply in the reference countries and in the EU during the 1970s and the early 1980s. After that, the decrease stabilized for most of the countries, but continued in Hungary, and Hungary’s rate has almost reached the EU average. The SDR for diseases of the respiratory system was below the average for the reference countries and that of the EU in the 1970s. In the following two decades, the SDRs for Hungary, the average for the reference countries and the average for the EU have become approximately the same. The SDR for diseases of digestive system was well below the EU average and close to the average for the reference countries in the early 1970s. Since then, the EU average has decreased, but the SDR in the reference countries has increased. The increase has been remarkable in Hungary, particularly for men, and its rate has been the highest among the reference countries during the last two decades. A major component of mortality from diseases of the digestive system is mortality from chronic liver diseases and cirrhosis, which has similar trends and is discussed in more detail in the section on alcohol. The significant increase in the SDR for diseases of the digestive system for Hungary in the early 1990s was followed by a sharp decline. One reason for this may be the introduction of the tenth edition of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) in Hungary in 1996 (Hungarian Central Statistical Office, 1998b) (Fig. 20, 21). External causes of death and injuries External causes of death and injuries covers all deaths caused by accidents, injuries, poisoning and other environmental circumstances or events such as violent acts (homicide) and suicide. The SDR for external causes among men has been the highest of the reference countries, excluding Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Since 1990, however, the rate has declined, but it is still high compared with the other reference countries and more than twice the EU average according to the latest figures (Fig. 22). The SDR from external causes among women has been the highest of the reference countries during the 1970s and the 1980s. However, the SDRs in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania exceeded it in the 1990s. Hungary’s decrease since 1990 in the SDR for external causes [Seite 16] among females has been one of the largest among the reference countries (excluding Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania), but the rate in 1998 was still one of the highest among the reference countries and more than twice the EU average (Fig. 23). The mortality from motor vehicle traffic accidents in Hungary was stable until the late 1980s. After this, it increased more than 60% from 15 to 25 per 100 000 population in 1990 but started to decrease in 1991. The decrease between 1991 and 1998 was the largest among the reference countries, leaving Hungary with one of the lowest rates among the reference countries, although 20% higher than the EU average. Accident statistics confirm the improvement in road safety.