【Italy earthquake】the government has declared a state of emergency aftershocks in the rescue difficult Central Italy to 24 early in the morning struck the magnitude (M) 6.2 earthquake, the Italian government 25 days,declared a state of emergency. Aftershocks hundreds of times and one after another, the rescue work has not been going smoothly. 25 afternoon on the M4. 3 of strong aftershocks occurred, and was even crumbling from the building from the rescue workers were hurriedly evacuated. Renzi Prime Minister the disaster areas of reconstruction to 5000 million euros (about 57 billion) of contributions pledged,the affected residents of the tax exemption measures announced. Furthermore, sloppy architecture, criticism is growing that building standards review the new measures introduced and expressed. But the Prime Minister of Italy, and all building completely earthquake-resistant, you can expect to be"ridiculous,"he said. Collapsed inside the building,new renovations・newly renovated ones, because in Italy, the disaster risk areas with high construction standards about criticism is growing. Historical regions in standards of compliance with the exemption, and new construction of the even if you restore from this. Tourists at the expense of the victims number at least 250 people or more,300 or more people in the hospital medical help to. From the dozens of people under the rubble trapped them. Approximately 5000 people a framework to search work,on August 25, and lasted. Many of the buildings are in danger, cars and tents etc at night for residents that. The Italian Red Cross is a private house, WiFi is a posse of communication to help residents, as the password to open for. The most serious damage, and my team,American－style, the Raymond and Pescara del Toronto municipality. Usually residents there aren't as many, the Summer Resort and tourist destination of the region, just missing the number guess is a difficult situation. The BBC's Jenny Hill according to the reporter, with 75% of the town collapsed in the Amateur series of the Posse is the media and residents,"the town is lost one"because of the hurried evacuation encourages. According to local officials, at least 3 people of the British people when my team died. The Romanian government, The Citizen 11 people missing and revealed. Pescara・model・Toronto, village in the 24 day and night,by 17 hours trapped girl rescued. Posse in 2009, more than 300 people died in Central Italy'aquila after earthquake occurrence, 3 days later, also the victims of the rescue that there was in mind, but this time even the discovery and rescue can be expected. However, fire authorities of Lorenzo Botti said, time and competition and admitted. "The circumstances of the situation the survivors find know, there's no such thing. Thoughtseize should continue working or not. For that, help people live their waiting for help and do not believe, and cannot work" on the one hand services to the communication and the remote check in which residents were evacuated to the House of burglaries attempted on suspicion of the man arrested by the police. An active fault is 2 run to Italy, earthquakes frequent the country. Italy・some of the media, and in earthquake prone areas earthquake resistance of buildings to improve why my power didn't question the voice that you have. Writer Dacia・Maraini Mr. Italian paper Corriere della Sera,"the pain than the anger of those who are strong would. Such destruction is inevitable that anger down"and contributed. 