The algorithm in the pound plunged from the withdrawal negotiations for the article from? Of the pound sterling against the U.S. dollar on July 7, Asia Times morning trading in temporary 6. 1% decline,31-year lows updated. Traders or computer algorithms are triggered and have guessed. Pounds temporary 1 pound = 1.1841 dollars and,in 1985, 3 month 26 days since the lows with. Then, 1.24 dollars recovered, but the market at the level of 1. 5% were below. Analysts, auto deal Website is a newspaper article in response to plunging, inviting, and have pointed out. On the other hand, the so-called"fat finger trade"called the trader of the erroneous input, such as a simple mistake was when I was May. Australian Melbourne based IG Securities analysts, Angus Nicholson, Mr. BBC, for"what will be the trigger I know exactly the"hard said. The pound plunged, the British paper Financial Times, and President Hollande is in the UK for the"severe EU membership negotiations"to request that the online version can tell immediately after that happened. "Keywords and the news flow to focus attention on the algorithm,this article in reaction to the pound began to sell it. Therefore, the normal daily turnover during periods of low pounds is large motion of the detection,other algorithms reacted to it. There are other algorithms also trailed it, sell overlap and the instantaneous plummet can"and Nicholson said. "Now the pound is very unstable currency only" momentary plummet from the US recovery, but the aftermath is a long and residing in Singapore analysts say. KGI Securities Nicholas・Teo said,"Why plunged, the negative effects can not be ignored, but it's not. Now the Forex trading world is deeply connected,very automated. It's just a pound of the most widely taken products this morning, like the sudden movement, and,in many people, and I didn't intend this movie should have just wrote". Main British Prime Minister on October 2,the European Union (EU) the withdrawal negotiations until the end of the month to 3 to start with since the announcement, the pound against the lower pressure is continued. 3 by the end of the withdrawal negotiations start if you UK in 2019 until the mid-to EU withdrawal would be. 6 as of the end of the referendum, since the specific withdrawal period is published for the first time was. The Prime Minister's announcement, the UK is immigration and the tightening of regulations for the purpose of the EU to be detached, the so-called"hard・drive set(leaving the EU)"going to pick from a concern that, from the fall of the pound has continued. 