When Europe unveiled proposals last year to toughen up data protection rules, they were hailed as an important advance in rights to privacy.
Now Brussels is weighing whether to adapt some aspects of the draft regulations in response to concerns over the impact on business.
But any changes should not sacrifice the fundamental principle that individuals are the ultimate owners of their own personal data.
Reform of Europe's data protection laws is long overdue.
The current regulations date back to 1995, long before the world became web wired.
Important questions have to be addressed as a result of technological advances that allow users to be tracked throughout cyberspace and their data to be mined for profitable purposes.
It makes sense to have harmonised regulations in a sector where borders are irrelevant.
But any new rules should be reasonable and enforceable.
In this context, it is right for Brussels to consider reviewing aspects that might conflict with a member state's own laws, such as regards data storage, which also aim to protect consumers.
It is also legitimate to worry that overly costly and restrictive rules might quash the competitiveness of Europe's digital companies.
Reconsidering certain aspects of the proposals should not, however, mean sacrificing the public's growing desire for greater privacy protection.
Two elements of the current proposals are central to meeting that demand.
Digital citizens, as ultimate owners of their data, should be asked for their explicit consent to its use.
The manner in which that is asked for, and the consequences of giving it, should also be unambiguous.
And once given, new consent should only be sought if the use of data changes.
Second, users should have the right to change or withdraw personal information that is harmful or inaccurate.
For this to be enforceable, Brussels will have to decide who should be responsible for content that has passed legitimately into third-party hands.
One example might be when a Facebook user wants to withdraw posts that were previously public but which have been picked up elsewhere.
This might be addressed by telling users at the time of consent what the potential consequences of a public profile could be.
Internet users are increasingly wary of how their data are being used.
Software companies who provide cloaking devices are booming.
The internet giants most opposed to Europe's proposals, such as Google and Facebook, neither can nor should ignore that demand.
A reasonable compromise is needed.