America's 2012 election is all about the economy.
Yet national security may prove critical on the margins.
Mitt Romney is doing his best to depict Barack Obama as someone who leads from behind.
If elected, Mr Romney may well bring continuity on foreign policy – as so often happens.
Yet he also risks boxing himself in with excessively hawkish language. That applies both to the substance and the politics.
On the first, Mr Romney promises a more assertive administration that would push back against China yet identify Russia as the chief national security challenge.
He would ensure US defence spending never falls below 4 per cent of gross domestic product – roughly a fifth more than today.
And he would be more willing than Mr Obama to project force.
In practice, he may well pick up where Mr Obama left off, as the latter did from George W. Bush across a surprisingly wide canvas.
The decision to move to red alert on Vladimir Putin's Russia would almost certainly run into opposition from America's Nato partners.
It is doubtful a new president beset by economic woes would pick unnecessary fights.
The same applies to China, which Mr Romney has promised to brand a currency manipulator.
Bill Clinton in 1992 and George W. Bush in 2000 also vowed to get tough with China. Both quickly accommodated themselves.
But other stances, notably on military spending, would be harder to unpick.
To say the least, it would be odd to expand the Pentagon at a time when Mr Romney would be demanding haircuts from everyone else.
Mr Romney is also taking a political risk.
Americans do not see Mr Obama as a weakling – the White House gives them scant leeway to do so.
In the past 10 days, officials have leaked accounts of Mr Obama's hands-on approach to the drone war on terrorist suspects.
The White House has also aired – some would say erred – in its account of the Stuxnet virus attack on Iran's nuclear programme.
In both cases, Mr Obama's electoral instincts may well have trumped presidential integrity – former intelligence operatives have criticised the detail of what has been disclosed.
In neither, however, does Mr Romney have much scope to appear more hawkish.
Moreover, less than 5 per cent of Americans list national security as a priority.
As the election hots up, Mr Romney would do well to avoid a bidding war on which of the two is more macho.