As doping scandals go, the case of Ye Shiwen is unconventional.
Thus far, it has more to do with diplomacy – or the lack of it – than pharmacy.
No one has even directly accused the young Chinese swimmer of cheating.
But after she delivered some extraordinary times in the pool at the weekend, John Leonard, a respected US coach, dubbed her performances “unbelievable” and “disturbing”.
It is not clear what Mr Leonard hoped to achieve by these remarks, to which he added some general observations about past Chinese cheating.
The Olympic doping testers will decide whether there was anything untoward about Mr Ye's astonishingly fast swims.
But if his innuendo served any purpose, it was to anger the Chinese team and to convey more than a slight whiff of American sour grapes.
It is early days but already at these games the Chinese team is making big inroads into the aquatic events – a discipline that has until now been dominated by the US.
Mr Leonard may have been wrong to highlight his suspicions about an individual.
But on a wider level he is right that doping remains a problem.
Whatever happens with the case of Ms Ye, the games are unlikely to pass without more doping controversies.
This is a sadness.
Doping not only undermines the spirit of fair competition that should infuse the Olympics; it devalues the whole spectacle.
Sport is about achievement through personal effort or it is about nothing.
The reality is that technology and evasion techniques have now grown so sophisticated that we must accustom ourselves to an era in which any final decision on medals could come some time after the event.
This puts an onus on observers and competitors to give the benefit of the doubt until definitive results are released.
As it is impossible to catch every transgressor, a tough line must be taken when cheats are uncovered.
The World Anti-Doping Agency has sought to impose a standardised two-year ban on those who dope.
This is too lenient to be an effective deterrent.
While lifetime exclusion may be too harsh, bans should last at least one Olympic cycle – or five years.
While there should be flexibility in cases of those who inadvertently take banned substances, those who wilfully transgress should face exemplary penalties.
Crying “wolf” about possible cheating is wrong.
But cheating itself is worse.
To restore belief in sport we should be tough with those whose feats defy it.