Barack Obama will soon appoint a new cabinet to form the backbone of his administration in its second term.
Among the most important decisions will be who replaces Hillary Clinton as US secretary of state.
Over the past four years, Mrs Clinton has been an energetic steward of America's foreign policy.
She has continued her political transformation from partisan Democrat to US senator and now stateswoman who commands wide respect beyond the US.
Replacing her at the state department with someone of similar gravitas is a tough call.
The president could choose a figure such as Senator John Kerry, the former Democratic presidential candidate.
There are, however, indications that he may instead opt for Susan Rice, US ambassador to the UN.
She has been an effective diplomat, securing UN sanctions resolutions on Iran and North Korea.
Her clout was all too evident last year when she helped persuade a reluctant Mr Obama to back military action over Libya.
In recent days Ms Rice has been under steady attack from Republicans.
They say that she bungled in the immediate aftermath of the Benghazi attack last September in which US ambassador Christopher Stevens died.
Ms Rice argued at the time that Mr Stevens was killed in a spontaneous protest that was later hijacked by extremists, not in a premeditated terrorist assault.
But this statement – based on a CIA briefing – appears to have been wrong.
Ms Rice now faces allegations that she misled the public.
She has some explaining to do but the Benghazi debacle is not a reason to stop her becoming secretary of state.
The bigger question is whether she has the stature for the job when the US faces major challenges in the Middle East and Asia.
Here, she is likely to be found wanting.
Ms Rice is close to the president.
But this alone cannot be a reason to recommend her.
She has won a reputation for being blunt and abrasive with US and foreign officials.
Throughout her career, she has been driven by concern about humanitarian issues in foreign policy.
But the next secretary of state needs a more sweeping world view.
Over the decades, the state department has been headed by giants of the American political stage – figures such as James Baker and George Shultz.
Mr Obama could spend valuable political capital fighting Ms Rice's nomination.
But he would do better to choose a heavyweight with the stature and experience to be the nation's top diplomat.