Iranians delivered a dramatic setback to their hardline leadership by casting their votes for the only moderate candidate in Friday's presidential elections.
Instead of the presumed favourite of the supreme leader, the intransigent nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili, the electorate voted for Hassan Rohani, a centrist cleric best remembered for suspending nuclear enrichment when he was in charge of nuclear diplomacy in the early 2000s.
Whether Mr Rohani won in spite of opposition from Ayatollah Ali Khamenei or with his last-minute consent may never be known.
But his election sends a powerful message that Iranians are fed up with extremist policies, whether in economic management or relations with the rest of the world.
Four years after Mr Khamenei ignored the vote for a reformist presidential candidate and handed the firebrand Mahmoud Ahmadi-Nejad a second term, this election confirms Iranians will not be cowed by repression.
It is with reformist votes stolen in 2009 that Mr Rohani won an outright victory in the first round, against five more hardline candidates.
Mr Rohani's election could present a new opportunity for international diplomacy at a time of heightened tension with Iran over its nuclear programme as well as its political and military backing for the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad.
While Tehran has scaled back the stockpile of 20 per cent enriched uranium, it has continued to build up the capacity of more advanced centrifuges, potentially allowing for a faster dash to a nuclear bomb.
It will require a careful calibration of western diplomacy to strengthen the re-emerging moderates in Iran and further weaken hardliners who will continue to control powerful institutions, not least the elite Revolutionary Guards.
The vote for Mr Rohani does not mean Iranians reject the nuclear programme; the president-elect himself is a staunch supporter.
But it tells us they are unwilling to pay the price of sanctions for the sake of more defiance.
Although Mr Rohani will not be the decision-maker on Iran's nuclear policy, a more moderate tone of diplomacy could make engagement with Iran easier.
His influence could lead to more flexibility in nuclear negotiations that will resume later in the year.
His abilities will be tested, not least in moderating Iran's belligerence.
But his presidency offers a chance of a new page in Iran's international relations.