When Pentagon chiefs agree with leading business groups, the US establishment has reached consensus.
For the third time in 20 years, the US Senate this week set the ball rolling to ratify the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Only a handful of countries, including Iran, North Korea and Venezuela, have refused to sign.
Both the US Chamber of Commerce and the military chiefs want it.
Yet it is unclear whether the White House will secure the two-thirds majority it needs.
The arguments against US ratification are weak.
Jim DeMint and Jim Inhofe, the Republican senators from South Carolina and Kentucky, say ratification would violate US sovereignty and constrain America's navy.
Neither view has much basis in reality.
Indeed, Leon Panetta, the US defence secretary, says the law's maritime exclusion rights would facilitate the biggest increase of US sovereignty since it acquired Alaska.
In addition to the benefits that legal certainty would give US mineral and telecommunications companies, it would also strengthen naval security, according to the US Navy.
That is why George W. Bush tried and failed to ratify the treaty in 2007.
The same went for Bill Clinton and George Bush senior before that.
The case has only grown stronger over time.
Ratification would deprive Beijing of its trump argument when the US insists on a multilateral solution to the disputes in the South China Sea.
Unless, and until, the Senate ratifies it, China can point to US double standards.
The same is true of many other treaties the US helped to negotiate. Think of the Kyoto protocol and the International Criminal Court.
Critics accuse the US of exceptionalism.
A better term is exemptionalism.
In reality, America has done more than any other nation to promote international law, even if its adherence has been selective.
Witness its efforts to bring dictators to justice in The Hague.
Yet in exempting itself, America lays itself open to charges of self-defeating hypocrisy.
There was a time when the US was in a position to have its cake and eat it.
To prolong its values in a shifting world, it must now show far greater fidelity to the international order it built.
Among the treaties it has failed to ratify, the Law of the Sea is an easy win.
Far from taking Americans a step closer to world government, it would signal America's willingness to stand by its own principles.
The time is long past due to ratify this treaty in the US national interest.