Once upon a time they used to be called ""emerging markets"".
But that was before Goldman Sachs packaged four of the largest — Brazil, Russia, India and China — in a presentation box and labelled it with the snappy acronym ""Bric"".
As a shorthand the category has taken off further than almost anyone might have guessed.
The four economies collectively had a great decade and even a pretty good financial crisis, so much so that the Bric governments have started having their own summits.
Rapid growth in developing countries, as long as the environmental and social stresses can be managed, can be good for all.
It is good for their citizens, whose living standards are transformed, and good for the rich nations, who gain cheap imports and bigger export markets.
It should also be good for the image of the market economy to show that the ladder to prosperity has not, contrary to the views of some, been kicked away.
But with power needs to come responsibility, and the Bric countries' record so far is one more of posturing than constructive dialogue.
Little has emanated from the Bric summits except the familiar demand for emerging markets to be given more voting power at the International Monetary Fund — an eminently justifiable call, but one needing no new configuration of nations to argue for it.
The first thing to do is accept that the entire notion of a single emerging markets view, or even a Brics view, is nonsense.
Interests often clash.
For example, China's continued insistence on holding down its currency inflicts significant damage on Brazil's manufacturers and dissuades it from diversifying away from commodities.
Pretending that a single ""developing country view"" holds has retarded progress in other fields such as trade and climate negotiations.
At the World Trade Organisation, the G20 developing nations grouping, containing both agro- exporters like Brazil and defensive smallholder farming nations like India, has often sunk to a lowest common denominator, calling on rich nations to make the running.
Similarly, during the Copenhagen climate talks, China was widely accused of scuppering a compromise that other developing countries might have welcomed.
Good luck to the Brics, and they deserve their proper say.
But they should recognise that, as they grow richer and more powerful, huddling inside the banner of developing country solidarity will help neither them nor the world economy in which they look set to play such a central role.