At times, what statisticians say can be more revealing than the statistics they present.
This was certainly the case with Ma Jiantang of China's National Bureau of Statistics when he commented this month on the country's latest national income figures.
His observation that “2012 will be a year of complexity and challenges”, was a masterpiece of understatement.
China's economy faces two sets of problems this year.
The first is the continued weakness of exports, owing to the slowdown in Europe which is China's main trading partner.
The second is the faltering real estate market.
New property starts fell by almost 20 per cent year on year in December alone.
The optimists prefer to look at the overall figures, which show the economy growing at 8.9 per cent in the fourth quarter.
In their view, these figures suggest that Beijing is succeeding in orchestrating the “soft landing” which some analysts predicted would be impossible.
The pessimists, meanwhile, prefer to emphasise how unreliable these figures really are.
But this debate, while heated, misses the point.
Whatever external conditions dictate, China's economy will be made to perform.
Deng Xiaoping's insight that without economic growth the Communist party would be history is particularly relevant in 2012.
Months before a crucial handover of power among its top leadership, the Communist party will not let gross domestic product fall below the 7 or 8 per cent mark which many analysts see as a pre-condition for social peace.
A new monetary and fiscal stimulus is likely to be launched if needed.
While this may not match the heroic efforts of 2009, it would be a bazooka of sufficient size and firepower to buy the government some more time.
This thought may comfort politicians in Beijing.
Unfortunately, there is a darker side to the coin.
Whether or not a sino-style bazooka is deployed, China can no longer escape a range of structural reforms which it has avoided over the years.
Top of the list are measures to rebalance aggregate demand, shifting the economy away from investment and exports towards domestic consumption.
Beijing also needs to shake up its supply side.
Too many firms are kept in business by overly generous credit lines, while other, less politically-connected, enterprises pay too much for their credit.
The debt of local governments is also a source of worry, as is the overall stability of the financial system.
Beijing has taken important steps to address these policy weaknesses.
Consumption appears to be growing as a slice of gross domestic product.
There have been attempts to deepen Shanghai's capital markets to make businesses less dependent on bank lending.
Keeping up the pace of reform is the key challenge for China this year, whether or not it reaches for another stimulus package.
In this sense, China faces a similar challenge to stagnant Europe.
Without structural economic reform, both regions are doomed to fall short of their true growth potential.