Jean-Claude Trichet's European Central Bank presidency started in November 2003 with a damaging dispute over the fiscal rules that underpin the euro.
It will end on October 31 with the project of post-1945 European integration hanging in the balance.
Neither Mr Trichet nor the ECB deserves to be accused of causing or prolonging Europe's financial sector and sovereign debt crises.
Responsibility rests largely with national politicians and policymakers.
They mismanaged their public finances and delayed economic reforms needed to strengthen competitiveness. They tolerated private sector debt binges and reckless bank lending. They let at least one country – Greece – adopt the euro before it was ready.
These blunders, and the inadequate repair work of the past two years, now threaten the survival of a monetary union whose original design was flawed.
Few governments can escape blame.
Germany and France rewrote the budget deficit rules in the European Union's stability and growth pact.
To his credit, Mr Trichet was one of the first EU policymakers to recognise the warning signals when the world financial crisis started in 2007.
For a central bank modelled on the majestically conservative Bundesbank, the ECB under Mr Trichet has entered distinctly unorthodox territory, notably with the launch in May 2010 of emergency government bond purchases.
Two Germans quit the ECB's
governing council this year rather than endorse what they saw as irresponsible rule-breaking.
The impact on German public opinion, which is quite wrongly beginning to think of the ECB as some sort of “bad bank”, is worrying.
With the crisis in full flood, it is premature to say that Mr Trichet has saved the euro.
But under his leadership there has been no bank run and no sovereign default in the eurozone. There has been no attempt to overcome the crisis
by debasing the currency through inflation.
If the ECB council is sometimes divided, it has maintained a degree of consensus which compares favourably with that of the eurozone's 17 governments –