No one ever went broke overestimating the capacity of the US Congress to screw things up.
So this week's failure of Washington's “supercommittee” to agree on a modest plan of fiscal tightening was hardly a surprise.
Washington is a long way from turning sensible – let alone super.
It might therefore be wise to bet on even worse gridlock as both parties dig in their heels for next year's general election.
The equal temptation will be to dismiss Capitol Hill's latest circus act as irrelevant.
And yet, as the slide in the Dow Jones and the rise in US Treasury bond prices implied, there could be real-world consequences.
Just as there are signs of a nascent US recovery, Washington may be about to douse whatever anaemic growth prospects are on offer.
The biggest fear is that Monday's failure means Congress will be unable to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment payouts agreed last year.
Had the supercommittee achieved a 10-year $1,200bn deficit reduction, it would have included an extension of these short-term fiscal boosters.
Now even they are in doubt.
Both will expire at the end of the year.
Should lawmakers fail to renew them, US growth next year would be curtailed.
Another congressional mishap cannot be discounted.
To judge by the direction of US Treasury long-bond yields, the market's fears of European chaos are greater than its hopes for a clear US recovery.
Then there are the “sequesters” – the $1,200bn in automatic cuts that will fall in equal parts on defence and non-defence domestic spending were the supercommittee to fail.
Many had been hoping these draconian kickers would act as an incentive for the 12 lawmakers to reach a deal in time for Thanksgiving.
Their hopes were misplaced, not least because the cuts are due to go into effect only after the next election.
On Monday, Barack Obama promised to veto any bill that wriggled out of the automatic cuts.
This is probably good politics.
Few Republicans would countenance a $600bn cut to the Pentagon.
Leon Panetta, the US defence secretary, warned it would “tear a seam” in US defence capacity.
That is overblown.
Sooner or later the bloated Pentagon budget could do with some enforced efficiencies.
Either way, the US still badly needs to agree on a framework for medium-term fiscal discipline.
Before then, however, there is the small matter of America's slow economic recovery.
Do not count on Congress to help it along.