Skies in Beijing were suspiciously blue on Monday on the eve of a National People's Congress that will confirm Xi Jinping as China's president.
The authorities are adept at turning pollution on and off, often by the simple expedient of ordering factories to suspend production.
Under Mr Xi, however, Beijing will have to move beyond the cosmetic.
Pollution, of both air and water, risks becoming a grave political crisis as a better-informed public wakes up to the environmental catastrophe around it.
In January, Beijing disappeared for days on end beneath a blanket of foul smog, sending deaths from respiratory illnesses soaring.
In recent years, there has been a series of mass protests against petrochemical factories in cities throughout China.
Time and again, authorities have climbed down in the face of public anger against the threat of environmental degradation, which is now discussed obsessively online and on television.
To be fair, China has not stood still.
Last year energy demand grew half as fast as economic output.
Energy intensity has declined since about 2003 and China is a big spender on renewable technology.
Yet rapid growth means pollution outpaces such improvement.
China burns nearly half the world's coal.
By 2030, it is expected to have added more generation capacity than exists today in the entire US.
If China is not to choke on its own development – and create a dangerous social backlash to boot – Mr Xi needs to do more.
First, his administration should become more transparent.
Gone are the days when Beijing can “deal” with the problem simply by lying about it.
Second, industries that pollute should be punished.
That means higher penalties, since polluters often find it cheaper to pay fines than to stop violations.
Third, there should be credible monitoring.
A clampdown would dovetail with Mr Xi's avowed battle against corruption.
The much talked about shift from investment-led growth to a more consumer-oriented model would also weigh against some of the biggest polluters.
For Mr Xi, tackling pollution is a tangible goal that does not explicitly challenge the Communist party's authority.
Other desirable reforms – opening up the political process, allowing free speech or loosening state control over the economy – directly threaten the party's monopoly on power.
Tackling environmental destruction, by contrast, is essential if the current political set-up is to survive.
If Mr Xi is looking for a way to make his mark, he should start with some blue-sky thinking.