Last week could have hardly been a longer one in Rome.
On Wednesday, as yields on government bonds climbed to 7.48 per cent, Italy was staring down the barrel.
A commitment to pass swiftly the package of reforms agreed with Brussels helped to appease the turmoil in the markets.
It also hastened the resignation of prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, who had pledged to step down once the package had been passed.
The end of the long reign of the much discredited tycoon-turned-politician was the real silver lining in the country's financial storm.
Italy and Europe can now look forward to the new administration.
It must show competence and leadership to help rebuild confidence among investors and allies.
Most importantly, it must contribute to restoring voters' faith in their country's political system.
To do so, Mario Monti, the likely next prime minister, must focus his agenda on two broad issues.
The first is fixing the Italian economy.
The second is mending the broken relationship between electors and politicians.
On the economic front, the priority must be to implement growth-promoting structural reforms.
This means reforming the Italian labour market, which suffers from a dangerous bifurcation between some segments of excessive protection and others of extreme insecurity.
The service sector must be made more competitive: so far, the entry of talented outsiders has been denied by powerful insiders.
The tax system should also be reformed. so that the country's fiscal burden falls more heavily on property and less on labour.
Finally, a clampdown on tax evasion has also to be enforced.
This last move would allow the country to continue in its effort of balancing its budget.
This is an essential precondition to restore the market's confidence.
If these efforts to cut the debt burden fail, a one-off wealth tax or the sale of selected state-owned assets should also be contemplated.
The new government must also build a new bridge between voters and politicians.
A first step would be to take the axe to the exorbitant costs of the Italian political system.
A second would be to change the electoral law, allowing the voters to have a real say in choosing their MPs.
These reforms would pave the way to a return to the polls, in a country which will, hopefully, be less worried about its future.
This is the dimmest aspect of Mr Berlusconi's legacy, which the new government must help the country to overcome.