For the US, the shale oil and gas boom is like a lottery win: exciting, but also unsettling.
Other countries are envious, while at home there is squabbling over how the bonanza should be used and anxiety over how long it will last.
In the excitement, self-destructive behaviour can seem dangerously appealing.
Those are not bad problems to have; it is easier to manage an energy surfeit than a shortage.
Yet the potential pitfalls are real.
When the Energy Information Administration predicted last week that US oil imports would fall in 2014 to their lowest for more than 25 years, it showed how far the shale revolution had come.
Bold predictions that the US will overtake Saudi Arabia to become the world's largest oil producer may not be fulfilled, but what is already happening is remarkable enough.
Yet some of the challenges are also already becoming clear.
For example, there are calls for the US to squat on its resource wealth like a dragon on its hoard.
A group of manufacturers last week launched a campaign calling for limits on exports of gas, to conserve it as a cheap input for US industry.
That plea should be resisted;
markets, not the government, are best placed to decide where US gas should be used, at home or abroad.
A similarly isolationist mistake is thinking reduced dependence on oil imports diminishes the US strategic interest in the Middle East.
The oil market is global, and disruption to supplies from the Gulf would hit consumers in the US like everywhere else.
Increased domestic production would cushion the blow, but if an oil shock pushed Europe and China into recession, the US would suffer too.
Interests beyond oil, such as Iran's nuclear programme, will anyway ensure US involvement in the region for the foreseeable future.
Nor can oil and gas production be an economic cure-all; it contributed just 1.2 per cent of gross domestic product in 2011.
Shale provides a valuable boost, but does not end the need for macroeconomic and structural policy to foster growth.
Finally, the shale boom threatens to move the US further away from action to address the threat of climate change.
The country's record temperatures last year were a reminder that the issue will have to be faced eventually.
Recent research on the “resource curse” – the idea that abundant mineral wealth hurts economic development – suggests it is far from inevitable.
By avoiding the pitfalls of its own resource boom, the US has a chance to prove it.