The International Monetary Fund fought hard and successfully to join the eurozone governments and the European Central Bank when a rescue for Greece was launched more than two long years ago.
It has not been a happy experience.
The Greek economy has underperformed growth and debt targets and is now enmeshed in a post-election tangle.
Unless there is a sharp reduction in the disarray and denial among the fund's European co-lenders, it is time the IMF handed the reins over to them.
The IMF's disquiet about Greece has been evident for more than a year.
That in itself was a belated recognition of reality: it should have pushed from the outset for a restructuring of privately-held sovereign debt and insisted on a much more realistic view of how much economic growth a battered and sclerotic economy was likely to produce.
Once the first Greek rescue had proved inadequate, the fund was persuaded to sign up to the second version this March only with great misgivings.
It must not be bounced into joining in a third – or even continuing to disburse under the current programme – on the basis of yet more hopelessly optimistic debt sustainability projections and more inadequate plans for official financing to fill the gap.
If the eurozone authorities want Greece to grow out of its debt burden without restructuring their own official loans to Athens, the IMF should invite them to take over the fund's exposure and confine its own role to giving open and honest assessments of the ensuing rescue attempt.
It could do so while reaffirming its confidence in other eurozone programmes.
But the longer the IMF participates in a rescue it does not itself believe in, the greater the cost will be to its reputation and support outside the eurozone.
Should any writedown on its lending even be proposed, it would enrage other shareholders, including the US and the big emerging economies.
Its implementation would be a disaster, raising costs for other borrowers and in effect crippling the institution.
On balance, the fund was right to take the risk of getting involved in Greece.
It has offered unrivalled technical competence and has tried to inject a sense of reality into the proceedings.
But the risks to its reputation have now begun to outweigh the limited good it has been doing.
The eurozone has money.
It needs an impartial and outspoken adviser, not a co-opted fellow creditor.
The IMF should look at how to extricate itself from further bankrolling the Greek rescue.