The appointment of Raghuram Rajan as head of the central bank offers a rare glimmer of light in monsoon-struck India.
Caught between sliding growth, a twin budget and current-account deficit and a plummeting rupee, the Indian economy is in one of its gloomiest periods since the 1991 crisis.
The former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund has a big reputation in the capital markets.
He should use his influence to lay out publicly what is needed to restore India's battered macroeconomic credibility.
Mr Rajan's arrival, however, is no turning point in India's fortunes.
From the return of Manmohan Singh as prime minister, to the selection of Palaniappan Chidambaram as finance minister, India has appointed a number of respected figures to its most prestigious policy roles.
Yet these high-profile appointees have failed to halt India's economic slowdown.
Most importantly, the Reserve Bank of India does not hold the key to India's revival.
True, Mr Rajan has the power to award new banking licences.
Opening up the lending sector to effective competition should help to allocate capital more efficiently, lifting growth.
Yet the central bank can only offer short-term fixes to a rupee in free-fall.
A credible commitment to tighten liquidity may help.
But only the government can lure back investors on a sustained basis.
Last month Delhi took steps to open its economy to foreign capital by easing or scrapping the limit on foreign holdings in a dozen sectors, including defence and mobile telecommunications.
At the margin, this will encourage international groups to invest in India.
However, allowing foreign companies to have a greater presence in India is no guarantee of investment.
Delhi should ensure corporations can work in a business-friendly environment.
The transport infrastructure is inadequate and needs upgrading.
Red tape must be slashed: setting up and expanding plants is a bureaucratic nightmare.
Public spending should be kept under control.
Larger budget deficits would need to be financed externally, putting more pressure on the currency.
India needs a burst of reforms similar to the shake-up that took place under Mr Singh after the 1991 crisis.
But as the country prepares to go to the polls in 2014, the government has little political space to force meaningful change.
The onus may well fall on whoever comes next.
Mr Rajan's selection is a big moment for India's economy.
But next year's elections will be an even bigger one.