Last week's fiscal crossfire by Democratic and Republican lawmakers was a reminder of what many had put at the back of their minds; that the deal to avert US sovereign debt default last July was not a real deal. It merely kicked the can down the road.
The next stretch of road ends on 23 November - just over three weeks away - when the so-called “super-committee” of twelve lawmakers publishes the deficit plan set out under the terms of the deal in July.
It is meant to come up with a modest $1,200bn in savings over the next decade.
It is easy to see what is needed: A short-term stimulus combined with a medium-term plan to tighten the budget when the economy gets going again.
Alas, Washington is in no better shape than it was during the debt crisis.
Republicans remain just as opposed to any kind of tax increase.
And Democrats, who last week proposed to shrink the deficit by a much larger $3,000bn, will reject any plan consisting only of spending cuts.
Not that the Democrats aren't trying.
Last week's plan was skewed six-to-one on spending cuts versus tax increases, according the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
This was a far tougher ratio than those put forward by the Simpson-Bowles committee last year, and the Gang of Six senators last summer – both of which left the Republicans cold.
John Boehner, the Republican House leader, still dismissed the Democratic gambit as “outrageous” because of its proposed tax increases on the wealthy.
All of which suggests a familiar showdown is looming - and with it the spectre of another credit rating downgrade.
In defense of its controversial action last August, Standard &amp; Poor's cited Washington's growing dysfunction.
Capitol Hill can be relied upon to keep bolstering S&amp;P's case.
Which leaves the White House.
So far Barack Obama has kept his counsel on the kind of package he would like to see.
This is a mistake – albeit understandable after what happened in July.
In his ill-fated “grand bargain” pitch to Mr Boehner to avert the debt crisis, Mr Obama bent over backwards to accommodate Republicans and was humiliated.
He should try again.
Sometimes good policy makes good politics.
Instead of watching Congress mess it up and hoping Republicans will get the blame, Mr Obama should submit a plan to simplify the tax code and rein in entitlements spending.
He should push to phase out the most wasteful tax subsidies in exchange for lower rates across the board.
Every year the US fritters away $1,200bn on tax breaks, such as relief on mortgages and private healthcare plans.
Even a 10 per cent shrinkage in “tax expenditures” would meet the 10-year deficit goal.
If a third were scrapped, the savings could fund a big tax cut for everyone.
And so on.
As it stands, nothing serious is likely to happen on Capitol Hill before 23 November.
Even if lawmakers reached a deal on their own, it would be heavily tilted towards spending cuts - the last thing a fragile US economy needs.
Nor would it be set in stone.
No Congress can bind the actions of a future Congress.
That applies to the much-hyped automatic cuts in discretionary spending that would be triggered if the super committee fails to strike a deal.
The cuts would begin only in January 2013 after the next Congress is in place – not a big enough fear to concentrate minds today.
Mr Obama has little to lose.
Rather than waiting passively for what would almost certainly be a last minute patch-up that could harm growth prospects, he should take the initiative and lead.