For 14 years, Hugo Chávez's anti-capitalist tirades gave voice to the downtrodden, made him a Robin Hood figure for the poor and gave the dispossessed a sense of identity.
Fittingly for a former tank commander, his body looked like packed concrete.
That made him seem indestructible, although it was two years of cancer that eventually did for his ambition of near-perpetual Venezuelan rule.
Chávez's death, aged 58, now leaves a vacuum in his country and the broader region.
But will his presence be missed for long?
Perhaps only by Russian arms-sellers and Chinese state banks that have mortgaged future Venezuelan oil production with $40bn of loans.
Everywhere else, Chávez's policies did everything but work.
At home, Venezuela faces an uncertain transition, with three points of potential tension.
Maintaining unity in the faction-ridden regime is the first challenge of Nicolás Maduro, the vice-president and Chávez's chosen successor.
The second tension pits the regime against the opposition in presidential elections due within 30 days.
This, however, is a struggle over the commandante's enemies that every chavista will enjoy.
Polls suggest an easy win, buoyed by the sympathy vote.
That leaves the third and biggest tension of all.
When Venezuela awakes from mourning, what will it see?
Chávez's United Socialist party, which remains the country's strongest political institution. But also mismanagement, corruption, inflation, shortages, and spiralling violence that has made Caracas one of the deadliest cities in the world.
Herein lay Chávez's political genius.
While alive, he reaped applause for his revolution without being blamed for its ills.
The new government will not enjoy the same.
“Viva el Rey, y muera el mal gobierno!”
(Long Live the King, and down with bad government), as Latin American independence rebels once shouted long ago.
A similar demythologising needs to take place throughout Latin America.
Venezuela rightly boasts it has slashed poverty, to 32 per cent in 2010 from 52 per cent in 2000.
But many countries have achieved the same or better without ransacking their economies as Chávez did.
Brazil is often held up as an example.
But in liberal Peru poverty has fallen even more dramatically, and in free-market Chile it has halved.
As for reducing inequality, Venezuela has been one of the worst performers, according to Sedlac, a regional think-tank.
Such inconvenient statistics never stopped Chávez from proselytising the virtues of his “Bolivarian revolution”.
Yet most Latin Americans knew better.
They may have enjoyed watching Chávez, the underdog, tweak the nose of the US.
But they also knew that Venezuela's oil-based model was unrepeatable elsewhere.
They also saw the parlous state of Venezuela and never wanted any of it for themselves.
Such is the power of demonstration.
Chavismo may live on locally, as Peronism does in Argentina.
But the days when it was held up as a viable or even desirable model have long gone.
Chávez, after all, was only one of many to have recently given the region a more unified sense of itself.
He was the driving force behind Alba, a leftwing group that includes Cuba, Ecuador and Bolivia.
But Alba has no broader following, and it disadvantaged Brazil's ambitions to lead South America.
It was also a thorn in the side of the Pacific Alliance, a free-trade pact grouping Mexico, Colombia, Peru and Chile.
Without Chávez's ideological presence and cheque book, Venezuela's regional influence will wane.
Instead, Brazil or the faster-growing examples of the Pacific Alliance economies will take its place. Both embody a more pragmatic alternative, free of the tired leftist rhetoric that so often poisoned hemispheric relations.
Chávez's death marks the end of an era.
Yet his very life represented the end of a retrograde period of Latin American history too – that of the populist caudillo, or strong man.
Paradoxically, victimhood is often central to that narrative, the sense of a national redeemer fighting shadowy external forces.
Yet Latin America has progressed so much over the past 20 years that victimhood no longer gels with a continent more prosperous and confident than ever.
Its biggest countries sit at international tables of power, not outside.
A sage once wrote: “I carry no malice within my breast, yet quite without wishing a man to the Devil, one may be permitted to hope for the best.”
The same can be said of Chávez.
He held the poor close to his heart, and showed that love with the panache of a televangelist.
Touching – yet his passing can only be helpful for the region.