As leaders of the Group of Eight leading economies gather in Northern Ireland, David Cameron's welcome initiative to reform global corporate tax rules may still fall short of definitive success.
All the more reason for governments to push on after the summit, together and at home.
The revelations in recent months that many high-profile global companies pay vanishingly little corporate tax have laid bare serious shortcomings in the international tax system.
That has helped create a groundswell of public demands for reform, which politicians, struggling to make ends meet in public-sector budgets, are readier than ever to meet.
This is good, and Mr Cameron deserves praise for raising the topic to the top of the global political agenda.
The task remains formidable.
There is a free-rider problem: every state would like everybody else to clamp down on tax avoidance without having to touch its own companies.
That makes the G8 an ideal forum to create a commitment to act together.
But Mr Cameron remains hampered by perceptions of hypocrisy: UK dependencies and the City of London advisers are important players in the tax minimisation game.
Saturday's deal with the dependencies is a mark of progress.
The best G8 outcome would be an international agreement on how to link tax bases to real economic activity and limit the creation of letterbox subsidiaries whose sole purpose is to locate the most profitable parts of businesses in low-tax jurisdictions – or in no jurisdiction at all.
In the short run, the UK could provide real leadership by backing a push for a common consolidated corporate tax base across the EU.
Far from a thin end of the wedge of tax rate harmonisation, CCCTB can protect legitimate tax competition against claims of unfairness.
The G8 should also advance the cause of the automatic exchange of tax information between governments, an essential tool for tax authorities to verify that democratically chosen tax structures are working.
A global deal is a tall order, but the right goal.
Meanwhile, states can act on their own.
They can amend ill-designed national rules, plus bilateral treaties whose aim of no double taxation has sometimes had the effect of “double no-taxation”, where companies pay no tax in either country.
When profits are in fact not taxed abroad, they should not escape the domestic tax net altogether.
Whatever progress the G8 makes this week, there is much work still left to do.