The midst of the worst economic crisis for 60 years is hardly a propitious moment to negotiate a global deal to combat climate change.
Given this backdrop, perhaps the outcome of the Durban summit – essentially a decision to postpone a decision on how best to co-ordinate a global response – was the best that could be hoped for.
This postponement will only be worthwhile, however, if countries now put serious effort into agreeing a binding successor to the Kyoto protocol.
The deal thrashed out in Durban rests on three main pillars.
The European Union and a handful of other wealthy countries will commit to a second round of emissions cuts after the main provisions of the Kyoto protocol expire in 2012.
In exchange, all countries will negotiate a new “protocol ... or outcome with legal force” which will come into effect by 2020.
The green climate fund, through which developed nations help developing ones offset the impact of environmental change, is also slated to become operational by the same date.
The impact of these agreements should not be overstated.
Even if implemented, they are unlikely to keep global temperature rises to less than two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels – the point at which scientists say climate change may be irreversible: after all, the countries that the deal commits to legally binding cuts account for just 15 per cent of global carbon emissions.
The other two pillars are also wobbly.
The politics of the green climate fund –  large fiscal transfers between countries in a time of austerity – are unrealistic.
And precisely what is meant by an “outcome with legal force” is far from clear.
This vagueness may have been the price for tying in China and India; but it could also provide cover for those who want to escape binding commitments in future.
Yet, despite these caveats, the Durban deal has set an important principle.
In future, developing as well as developed countries will be responsible for emissions curbs.
This matters: first, because the Kyoto protocol's differential treatment of rich and poor countries has vastly complicated the politics of climate negotiations; second, because emerging economies now account for almost three-fifths of global emissions.
Reduction efforts without them mean little.
For this principle to have any practical effect, however, world leaders must at some point make the decisions deferred in Durban.
The political conditions for a deal may have improved in four years' time.
The sad thing is that the environmental conditions will not.