Europe's response to its sovereign debt crisis over the past 18 months has been akin to that of an unruly orchestra, with various sections refusing to play to a common score.
Yet this could be the week that the musicians finally began to play in harmony.
On Wednesday, the world's central banks took co-ordinated action to avert a liquidity crunch for Eurozone banks by injecting cheap dollars into the financial system.
The same day, Germany dropped objections to the idea of providing extra support to the International Monetary Fund, which could enable it to play a bigger role in stemming the crisis.
And on Thursday, Mario Draghi, European Central Bank president, signalled that he stood ready to take more aggressive action to save the euro.
But he has set a prerequisite – and meeting it is not a given. Eurozone states must do their part by agreeing a new fiscal compact, setting once and for all common rules to restore market confidence in the stability and future of the currency area.
Critics have attacked the ECB for failing to step in as a lender of last resort for troubled countries.
The Financial Times remains of the view that this is not the way forward.
Mr Draghi's comments, however, for the first time indicate that the ECB is willing to intervene more aggressively than it has done so far.
He remains deliberately vague about what action the central bank would take.
But the ECB president has cleverly stepped up the pressure on Europe's member state governments, by adding momentum to the initiatives this week which have given some hope to exhausted debt markets.
France and Germany now feel they have some credible interlocutors in the periphery, notably Mario Monti in Italy.
But they remain at loggerheads over the contents of a new fiscal compact.
Germany again ruled out the joint issuance of debt through eurobonds. France is firmly resisting any budgetary constraints that are legally binding at the EU level.
Mr Draghi is right to say that unless agreement can be reached on a clear set of rules, confidence will not return.
A signal on longer-term goals is needed, and urgently, to build on the fragile hopes raised this week.
By setting out his stall ahead of next week's summit of European leaders, Mr Draghi has now put the responsibility for the return of confidence – and the possible success or failure of the euro – firmly on their shoulders.
It would be a tragedy of Wagnerian proportions should they fail to rise to the challenge.",001042038_.txt
"The prospect of a global deal to combat climate change has been receding for two years.
The latest round of talks in Durban has so far done little to reverse this.
Barely a year before the main provisions of the Kyoto protocol are due to expire, delegates are deadlocked on the issue that has bedevilled climate talks for a decade: should the international community agree on legally binding carbon emissions targets, or will voluntary pledges by individual states suffice?
Legal commitments are clearly preferable.
They make it more likely that countries will actually follow through on their promises.
And by providing a degree of predictability in policy, they make it easier for businesses to decide to invest in green technologies.
Persuading nearly 200 countries to agree such a deal would be a challenge in good times.
With the world economy in poor shape, it is all but impossible.
Leadership is conspicuously absent.
The US is doing its best to escape binding commitments.
Despite its mushrooming economic clout, China, the world's largest carbon emitter, insists that it should be regarded as a developing country, and thus exempt from binding targets.
Given this deadlock, other options, such as a provisional extension of the Kyoto protocol, have been mooted.
But, as things stand, even this modest step looks politically infeasible.
This leaves voluntary commitments akin to those made last year in Cancún as the best that can be expected.
That would be better than nothing.
Even minimal international co-ordination gives political cover to those governments that wish to press ahead with carbon reduction in the face of domestic opposition.
Similarly, it maintains a degree of political pressure on those countries who refuse to take any action.
Just as importantly, the longer emissions control remains a live issue, the greater the incentives will be for companies to try to make money from combating climate change.
In time, this should help create a more vociferous constituency of businesses in favour of concerted international action.
Economic recovery in the developed world, when it comes, should also boost the chances of a global deal.
The worry is that, by then, the achievements of the past decade may have been eroded.
Chinese and Brazilian threats about the future of the UN-backed carbon offset market are a bad omen.
Delegates in Durban must ensure that, even if they cannot achieve a global pact this week, they do not undo the good work already done.