With its commitment to “break the vicious cycle between banks and sovereigns”, the European Council in June belatedly turned its attention to the real cause of the eurozone crisis: a lack of tools to deal with the unsustainable cross-border balances of private debt.
Since then, Germany has piled one misgiving on top of another about plans for a banking union to be drawn up by the end of the year.
Some think this amounts to a “wrecking strategy” to scupper a pooling of risk and responsibility Berlin does not really want.
That is unwarranted.
Germany raises many valid points.
The June summit struck a bargain between creditor and debtor countries: possible pooling of bank recapitalisation in return for supranational bank supervision.
Wolfgang Schäuble, German finance minister, says the quality of a euro-wide supervisor takes priority over “unrealistic time expectations”.
He is only half right.
Saving the eurozone from a deep bank-driven downturn requires deliberation, but also haste.
The sorry state of Europe's banks was laid bare by this week's International Monetary Fund warning of a possible $2.8tn credit crunch.
There are, of course, political and intellectual obstacles to clear from the path to banking union, such as the status of non-euro members and whether a supervisory role puts the European Central Bank in conflict with its monetary policy mandate.
Berlin adds a new concern.
Worried about being outflanked in a one-country-one-vote system – like the Bundesbank over ECB bond buying – Germany is pushing for greater voting rights in a new supervisor.
Since the point of joint supervision is to end the noxious influence of national and regional politics on bank regulators, no country can have veto power over a eurozone supervisor.
But if Germany will only join a banking union where its power is reasonably proportionate to its size and the funds it may put at risk, that is a price worth paying.
Qualified majority voting, used in many EU bodies including the European Banking Authority, would be acceptable.
In return, however, Berlin must get firmly behind the kind of banking union that will work.
There can be no more hints of unpicking the political agreement from June by excluding “legacy” bank assets from the pooled responsibilities.
And Germany must let its own savings banks come under the new supranational umbrella.
Ireland and Spain show that small banks can threaten sovereigns – and the single currency itself.