Twenty-five years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Europe again echoes to the sound and fury of revolution.
Back in 1989 the collapse of the wall heralded the end of the cold war. Much of central and eastern Europe escaped Soviet hegemony and walked peacefully into the embrace of the European Union.
The insurrectionary drama unfolding in Ukraine is still in its early days. Several acts lie ahead.
But even when set against the epic events of 1989, its historic significance cannot be dismissed.
This is a moment of immense opportunity – and immense danger – for Ukraine, for the EU and for Russia.
More than any single moment since the collapse of the Soviet bloc, the revolution that began in Kiev heralds “the hour of Europe”.
Anyone contemplating the revolutionary developments in Kiev and the toppling of President Viktor Yanukovich must start by reflecting on what it signifies for Ukraine and its 46m people.
The country separated peacefully from the dying Soviet Union in 1991, renounced nuclear weapons and seamlessly moved to independence.
Hopes of a democratic future for the country were high, especially after the 2004 Orange Revolution.
But in the intervening years the country has been led by a cynical, corrupt leadership that has taken Ukraine today to the brink of economic meltdown.
The fall at the weekend of the Moscow-backed Yanukovich – toppled by his own political ineptitude as much as anything else – now gives Ukraine a fresh opportunity to become a functioning democratic state.
However, the Ukrainian revolution has political implications that go well beyond its borders.
For a quarter of a century this huge territory perched precariously between the EU and Russia has been the object of a geopolitical contest between the Kremlin and the west.
In 2008 President George W Bush made a clumsy attempt to tip that contest decisively in the west's favour, seeking to draw two former Soviet states – Ukraine and Georgia – into the US-led Nato alliance.
President Vladimir Putin responded with force.
He drew a line under any new attempt to weaken Russian influence in its near abroad, road-blocking the Nato applications and invading Georgia.
But the Maidan revolution now offers a second chance for all parties to reconsider the status of Ukraine on the faultline of Europe.
If Ukraine can be drawn into the economic and political community of Europe without alarming Russia, this would be an immense achievement for European values and for the international standing of the EU.
Such a development, however, will require the co-operation of Mr Putin.
And this is why events in Kiev bring both extraordinary opportunity and extraordinary danger.
For Mr Putin has never left any doubt about his nostalgic vision to restore Russia to its status as a great power.
Central to this vision is the idea of forging a Eurasian Union, an international commercial and political network of former Soviet states.
The loss of Ukraine to the west in any form would scupper that, and more.
It would be seen by many in the Kremlin as a body blow, given the centuries of historic ties between Russia and Ukraine.
Far from agreeing to a shift in Ukraine's status, Mr Putin might therefore revert to type, plunging Russia's neighbour into a bitter and destructive war.
The overwhelming task for European and American leaders must be to convince the Kremlin that this is not how Ukraine's story should unfold.
Western leaders must spell out how Ukraine – an ethnically diverse country straddling Russia and the eastern borders of the EU – can enjoy a special position in Europe.
The US and EU should unveil a vision of a democratic Ukraine that becomes a fully independent state, mutually respectful to both Russia and the EU and forging close economic relations with both.
It is a vision in which Ukraine would be able to set out on a long-term path to join the EU as a fully fledged member.
But like Finland, another Russian neighbour, this is a country that must also remain unaligned in east-west security terms, and stay firmly out of Nato.
Forging a common international vision for the future of a democratic Ukraine is now the most urgent task of western diplomacy.
It will require political leadership of the highest order.
Here, President Barack Obama must act with urgency, ridding himself of the inclination to lead from behind, a worrying trait he demonstrated over Syria and Libya.
Relations between the White House and the Kremlin are fraught at best and the vaunted “reset” of 2008 has come to little.
Now is the time to re-engage at the highest level.
All this will require leadership from three sets of actors.
The first group are Ukraine's national leaders.
While the entire opposition may rejoice at the undignified exit of Mr Yanukovich, the reality is that they are still heavily divided.
The opposition has credible mainstream leaders in the form of Arseniy Yatsenyuk, the former economy minister, and Vitali Klitschko, the boxing champion.
However, elements on the nationalist right do not regard themselves as subordinate to these figures.
It is vital that all these political forces – together with Yulia Tymoshenko, the somewhat tarnished heroine of the 2004 Orange Revolution – come together in a spirit of national unity to ensure there are free and fair elections on the designated date of May 25.
Secondly, there are important financial responsibilities that fall on the west, notably the EU, US and International Monetary Fund.
The EU miscalculated last year by delivering a “take it or leave it” offer of an association agreement with Ukraine, without offering Kiev badly needed cash to help staunch its debt crisis.
The EU and IMF must learn from that mistake.
The urgent task is to offer a financial aid package that helps to stabilise the country.
True, there are serious obstacles.
Much of the Ukrainian elite seems to have been implicated in gross corruption.
Future financial aid will therefore have to be conditional.
But western leaders must avoid repeating the errors made early in the Arab spring, when the US and its allies did not think imaginatively enough about economic assistance for post-revolutionary governments struggling with new realities.
Finally, a special responsibility falls on Mr Putin.
The hope must be that the Russian president recognises quickly that his options are limited.
This is not 1956 in Hungary, or 1968 in Czechoslovakia when the Kremlin crushed popular uprisings with brutal force.
A vicious military response by Moscow to the revolution in Kiev would see Russian troops battling insurrection everywhere.
Mr Putin could of course resort to more underhand tactics.
He might cut off gas shipments to Ukraine as he did in 2006 and 2009, or impose trade embargoes.
He could seek to weaken the coherence of the Ukrainian state by asserting full Russian control over Crimea.
But none of this will alter a basic truth: former President Yanukovich, the designated Kremlin ally, is a busted flush.
He could seek another protégé. But as a strategist, Mr Putin must know his gambit of turning Ukraine into a Russian satellite is unworkable.
Permanently destabilising the country is a tactic, not a policy.
Whether Mr Putin is prepared to accept this reality or is planning to fight on remains unclear.
This is why a concerted western response is so important.
Not just by the US but also the EU.
Throughout the past decade the EU's effectiveness as an international actor has been battered by the eurozone crisis, its political will sapped by economic austerity and by growing public disaffection with the entire European project.
Yet events in Ukraine have demonstrated how much the EU matters for millions of people living beyond its borders.
Throughout recent weeks protesters in Maidan Square in Kiev have wrapped themselves not only in the blue and yellow flags of Ukraine but also in the blue and yellow stars of the EU flag.
The EU has come to represent democracy, freedom and decent, if not perfect, governance.
These are universal values.
Over the past week, Ukrainians have shown they are prepared to sacrifice their lives for those values in the hope of a better future.
In 1989 western leaders and an enlightened Kremlin leader recognised the new reality.
History deserves to repeat itself.