The decade-long hold of “managed” democracy in Russia has been broken. 
Even on the disputed official results, Russia's opposition achieved a breakthrough in Sunday's regional elections. 
In Moscow's first mayoral ballot since 2003, anti-corruption blogger Alexei Navalny finished second with 27 per cent of the vote. 
In Russia's fourth-largest city, Yekaterinburg, the anti-drugs activist Yevgeny Roizman came first, with 33 per cent.
The Kremlin's gamble in letting two outspoken critics from outside Russia's controlled political “system” participate has succeeded in some respects. 
Neither man won a majority. 
In Russia's political capital, scene of the main post-election protests in 2011, the Kremlin-backed candidate, Sergei Sobyanin, still beat the opposition's brightest star. 
A poor turnout flattered Mr Navalny's voting share.
But in many ways the gamble backfired. 
Mr Sobyanin had all the advantages of the incumbent, with access to “administrative resources” such as influence over law enforcement and media. 
Even so, his voting share declined throughout the campaign, and the official result put him only one point above the 50 per cent needed to avoid a second-round run-off.
Mr Navalny was on less than 10 per cent support when the campaign began eight weeks ago. 
The bulk of his campaign took place when Muscovites were on summer holiday. 
He, like Mr Roizman, had no access to most broadcast media, and faced constant harassment. 
Indeed, two months ago, Mr Navalny was sentenced to five years in jail on trumped-up charges, before being released on appeal. 
The poll result will now make it more difficult for the authorities to jail him.
The two men showed it is possible for charismatic candidates with credible messages, waging genuine campaigns, to overcome the hurdles and win a meaningful share of the vote. 
The “non-system” opposition can no longer be dismissed as an irrelevance – even if troubling questions still hang in the air about Mr Navalny's nationalist leanings and Mr Roizman's past practice of chaining drug addicts to their beds.
The election also showed, however, how far the opposition has to go to become a genuine alternative commanding broad support and to move Russia closer to being a real democracy. 
It should set aside its squabbling, still in evidence on Monday in sniping from some quarters about Mr Navalny's performance, and unite. 
It must organise better, and formulate a persuasive programme.
Yet even now the Moscow race may not be over. 
Thousands demonstrated on Monday night after some exit polls and an election monitoring group said Mr Sobyanin had won less than 50 per cent. 
Mr Navalny has highlighted anomalies and demanded a recount. 
Given the question marks, such a recount should take place, along with scrutiny of video from polling stations. 
If the incumbent's 50 per cent-plus total is found to have been inflated, a second-round run-off should be held. 
Now that would be a contest worth watching.