This year started with thrilling hope and vaulting ambition in the Arab world, as a chain of uprisings toppled long-ruling tyrants: four down so far, in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and Yemen, with the blood-drenched despot of Damascus surely not too far behind.
But there has been much hand-wringing about how things are turning out: a string of Islamist election victories, especially in Egypt; a jostle for power and persisting instability accompanied (in Egypt and Syria) by sectarian flare-ups.
Yet it is hard to see how it could be otherwise, in light of history.
In the first Arab Awakening, the normal course of nation-building and evolution of constitutional politics was interrupted, and its proto-democratic expression discredited, by the intrusion of the British and French empires in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
That aborted evolution gave way to the purported revolution of pan-Arab nationalism, which masked the will to power of national, militarised, new elites, who built iron-fisted security states that left the mosque the only politicised space for their opponents to rally.
The west colluded in that, in the interest of apparent stability, guaranteed oil and the security of Israel, and also bought the pipe-dreams of reform – reform of which these regimes were not capable.
Those who now worry where the Arab spring is leading should ask themselves where many of these countries were heading anyway, under tyrannies that bred Islamic revivalism with the efficiency of incubators.
This is not some idle counter-factual.
The Libya-is-heading-for-Somalia crowd and those who insist that Syria is the new Iraq are shallow in their realism and falsifying the political balance sheet.
The real equation shows that the regimes they lament were the primary source of instability.
The savagery and sectarianism of the Assad regime, as it clings to power and threatens to destabilise its neighbours, exemplifies this.
Nonetheless, there will be a long, messy transition.
Islamists will be at or near the centre of Arab political gravity.
The possibility of Iraq-style sectarian conflict is real.
But Iraq was invaded and occupied. In these uprisings the Arabs are, for the most part, liberating themselves.
The difference is fundamental.
For all that history has given Islamists a head start over their rivals, they will now have to move beyond the facile slogans of resistance, such as the Muslim Brotherhood's “Islam is the solution”, and deliver the jobs and services, institutions and rule of law, education and reforms that will enable their peoples to unlock their pent-up potential.
Islamists of every stripe, more­over, have to compete with broad-based if fragmented democratic movements thrown up by rebellions that emerged outside the iron grid of despotism and Islamism and that, unlike their serial failures to upend the despotic order, were successful
Sceptics will point to Iran's 1979 revolution, broadly backed by democrats but hijacked by theocrats.
Indeed.
But the more relevant example today is Turkey.
Unlike the Iranian mullahs, who violently defend their vested interests from behind a façade of divine order, Turkey's post-Islamist ruling party suggests Islamism can be synthesised into a pluralist secular order.
Iran and Saudi Arabia are theocratic and sectarian, but mainly Sunni Turkey is not, notably in its dealings with Iraq or Syria.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, its prime minister, is not secular in the western sense but is selling secularism as a shield of state to protect all beliefs equally, including Islamists'.
Turkey's experience engages the imagination of Arab public opinion in a way that Iran's or Saudi Arabia's does not.
Many Arabs like what they see in Turkey: not just a vibrant democracy but a dynamic economy led by Islam's equivalent of Christian Democrats.
It's not the model. It's the success.