In the heady days after the European Council summit almost two weeks ago, quite a few EU and national officials went off the reservation, spraying confusion on what may or may not have been decided.
By this week's eurogroup meeting, the whips had clearly been out in force, and it was established that what had been agreed had, in fact, been agreed.
That is good news insofar as it means there is no backsliding (yet) on the first significant progress made in the management of the eurozone crisis for some time.
The single currency's leaders staked out a course towards banking union in an overdue attempt to unclasp the lethal embrace of sovereigns with their banking system that the debt crisis has disrobed.
At this week's meeting the first steps were taken down this route.
€30bn was set aside to recapitalise Spanish banks, a downpayment on a total promise of €100bn.
More importantly, the eurozone affirmed that, once a common bank regulator is created, the Spanish government will not be liable for the aid.
This usefully slapped down incontinent unnamed officials who had insisted direct injections of common rescue funds into Spanish banks would require Madrid's sovereign guarantee – which would of course defeat the entire purpose.
This does not solve Spain's problem, nor the broader debt crisis.
Until the new regulator is in place, Madrid will have to put the bank bail-out cost on its balance sheet.
This may well leave it to borrow at more than 7 per cent for some time.
But at least the beginning of a solution is visible.
Provided euro members accept giving a common regulator power over their banks as the price for collective aid, by the end of the year banks need no longer be a millstone around their sovereign's neck.
Spain can afford to pay high yields while waiting.
A lot of other things can still go wrong.
Markets could close completely for Spain, Italy or other states.
The lack of a firm willingness to use the European Stability Mechanism to buy their bonds is worrying, as is the lack of any willingness at all to make the ESM more effective through a banking licence.
The downturn could also worsen, but awareness is at least growing that fiscal tightening can go too far in an economic bloc with no external deficit to speak of.
Despite the headwinds, the eurozone may finally be exiting the financial market eddy that it was sucked into two years ago.
The question is whether nation states will stay on board or jump ship when it comes to ceding power over banks they consider theirs.