The recent string of scandals at Chinese companies listed in North America should be a wake-up call for both the listing authorities and investors.
Their failure to pay sufficient attention to corporate governance and accounting is stoking a confidence crisis.
Nerves have already been shredded at Sino-Forest.
Shares in the Canadian-listed company, which has interests in Chinese forestry, slumped earlier this year after a US research firm, Muddy Waters, published a report accusing it of massively inflating its earnings and assets.
Although Sino-Forest last week published an internal report rebutting the claims, investors remain unconvinced.
The irony is that worries about its financial health now threaten to trigger a liquidity crisis.
Sino-Forest is only one of a number of accounting scandals to damage China-based companies.
These include China High Precision Automotive, which suspended its shares after KPMG said it could not form an opinion on its financial statements because it had not been given access to key papers.
The auditors to another tech company, Longtop Financial, resigned after identifying numerous instances of fraud at the company.
Such spats are creating a paradise for short sellers.
One reason for the disputes is that the US has sought to crack down on Chinese accounting.
Together with the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board has demanded more access to Chinese audits.
Irritated by what it sees as the US extra-territoriality, Beijing has objected.
This, in turn, has exposed the inability of the big four accountants to impose common standards around the world.
Their Chinese affiliates may carry their names over the door, but these are franchises subject to local oversight.
These accounting concerns come after a period in which North American markets have thrown open their doors to Chinese companies.
The authorities on Nasdaq in particular have approved a plethora of reverse mergers with shell companies.
Many should not have been allowed in, and there has been a predictable rash of frauds and governance problems.
The listing rules should be tightened.
Foreign companies that cannot comply with US standards of accounting should not raise money from American investors.
There is, sadly, little to be done about those companies that have already been admitted as to delist would simply punish investors further.
But those who put money in should do so with their eyes wide open.