As it did last summer, the US Congress has just shown how its discord continues to erode America's economic policy credibility.
Last year a fight over the federal debt ceiling placed the US recovery at entirely unnecessary risk.
This year Congress has gone on recess leaving evidence of legislative dysfunction that, while less dramatic than that in 2011, underlines why the US is having such difficulty in projecting a coherent economic policy abroad as well as at home.
Lawmakers went home last week leaving two pieces of rather important business unfinished.
First, the farm bill, which sets agricultural subsidies for the next five years, remains in limbo after the Republican House leadership saw it did not have the votes even to clinch a one-year extension of current law.
Second, Congress failed to normalise trade relations with Russia.
US businesses will be deprived of some of the benefits of Russia joining the World Trade Organisation, which it will do on August 22.
Both issues indicate a distressing inability to recognise the US's international interests and obligations.
Not only does the farm bill remain unresolved, but draft versions kicking round Capitol Hill have worrying global implications.
They reduce agricultural subsidies that do not distort world trade rather than those that do, and fail to end the embarrassment of America's cotton support programme, eight years after Brazil won a World Trade Organisation case declaring it illegal.
Normalising trade relations with a country about to join the WTO should be a routine administrative matter.
But the Russia permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) got tangled up with the Magnitsky bill, an act designed to pursue Russian human rights violators.
The Magnitsky bill is important, but it can stand on its own merits.
Disadvantaging US exporters trying to sell to Russia against their competitors in other WTO member states is an odd way to promote human rights.
The US is playing a smaller role in international economic governance than in earlier decades.
This derives less from the ideology or competence of Barack Obama's administration than it does from congressional divisions and dysfunctions that make the projection of a coherent trade and international economic policy difficult.
Trade policy has repeatedly been made hostage to political posturing, and America's need to placate its farmers has helped condemn the “Doha round” of trade talks to an undignified death.
Judging by Congress's actions this month, there is little prospect of change.