Choosing when to welcome a pariah state back into the international fold is fraught with risk.
The ill-judged rehabilitation of Muammar Gaddafi in 2003 merely reinforced a despot.
But Barack Obama has made the right decision to open the door to Myanmar with his historic presidential visit.
Human rights groups have attacked the US president for rushing to legitimise Myanmar's nominally civilian government before democratic reforms take root.
Thein Sein, the reform-minded president, has released hundreds of prisoners, ended media censorship and allowed democracy activist Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy to enter parliament.
But the government's ambivalence in the face of what look increasingly like anti-Muslim pogroms in Rakhine state shows that human rights are far from entrenched.
Many political prisoners also remain in jail, although 60 were set to be freed last night.
It is just for these reasons that the trip is well-timed.
It has already prompted a raft of new initiatives on the eve of his arrival.
But for reform to continue, Mr Thein Sein needs to show the old guard concrete results.
Many still exercise influence in parliament and the government.
There is frustration that the US has suspended rather than lifted sanctions.
The first visit by a sitting US president is a very public signal that support will be forthcoming if the pace is kept up.
Washington's act is not selfless.
Mr Obama's six-hour visit is one stop on an Asian tour designed to promote the US as a counterbalance to China's rising influence in the region.
US companies are eager to seize opportunities presented by Myanmar's rich natural resources.
These are important considerations, but they cannot overshadow the urgent need to press Myanmar's government, especially on human rights.
Its record on protecting the ethnic minorities who make up 30 per cent of the population is dire.
Two hundred people are dead and more than 100,000 displaced because of the violence in Rakhine.
Mr Thein Sein has for the first time hinted that this will be addressed.
Mr Obama must stress to him that action should be swift and that human rights cannot be sacrificed to strategic and commercial interests.
Sanctions once eased can be reinstated.
Myanmar's democratic progress may be fragile, but so too is its rehabilitation.
Mr Obama has given Myanmar's government the carrot of a symbolic presidential visit. But it is not yet time to put away the stick.