Sino-Japanese tensions are boiling over again.
The proximate cause is five uninhabited islands and three rocks, called the Senkaku by Japan, which administers them, and the Diaoyu by China, which claims them.
The real cause is national pride and unfinished business left over from the war.
The latest flare-up follows the visit to the islands by Japanese nationalists after police arrested and deported 14 Chinese activists who travelled by boat from Hong Kong to plant flags last week.
The Japanese display triggered angry demonstrations in at least half a dozen Chinese cities.
In Chengdu, where thousands marched, one banner, reflecting enduring anger about Japan's wartime aggression, read:
“Even if China is covered with graves, we must kill all Japanese.”
One Chinese general suggested Beijing should send 100 ships to defend the islands.
In Japan, Shintaro Ishihara, the nationalist governor of Tokyo, has been collecting donations to buy the islands from the family that owns them.
If he succeeds, or if the Japanese government heads him off by purchasing them instead, the dispute may escalate.
This is no local scrap.
Tokyo says Washington has confirmed that the Senkakus are covered by the US-Japan security treaty.
In theory, that would mean American soldiers risking their lives to defend the uninhabited islands if China were foolish enough to attack.
Both Beijing and Tokyo are under high-octane domestic pressure to be tough.
But both must find ways of cooling tensions and sidelining the shrill elements of nationalism.
They need to maintain cordial diplomatic relations and not risk a repeat of several years ago when Sino-Japanese contacts at the highest level were virtually frozen during the premiership of Junichiro Koizumi.
Neither should the dispute be linked with other issues.
In 2010, Beijing blocked exports of rare earths vital for Japanese industry after Tokyo arrested Chinese fisherman near the islands.
Tokyo too must avoid pointless tit-for-tat.
In a separate tussle with South Korea, also over disputed islands, Japan has hinted at retribution by withdrawing a currency-swap arrangement.
That is the wrong strategy.
There are no easy solutions to impassioned disputes over territory and history.
Deng Xiaoping's formula was to set aside such disputes for future, wiser, generations to deal with.
Given the inflamed rhetoric in both countries, such wisdom is evidently not with us yet.
There is no shame in kicking this one down the road.