For once, global stock exchanges are the story – not the shares traded on them.
But the extraordinary wave of proposed mergers presents questions for policy makers.
Competition has already been increased and regulation tightened.
Regulators should scrutinise the form these new exchanges take.
But they should manage – not resist – the force of the market.
Stock exchanges are built in the image of the markets they serve.
Once every city had a bourse.
Now that capital is global, consolidation is being applied on an international scale.
The idea that exchanges must be national entities is no longer true.
Those in the US who object to Germany's Deutsche Börse running NYSE Euronext should remember that NYSE owns the Paris exchange.
The real concern that mergers raise is the threat that a larger provider abuses its dominance.
In the past decade, US and European regulators broke exchanges' trading monopolies.
The ensuing fragmentation has worked well for share trading.
In the UK, the London Stock Exchange now handles less than 60 per cent of trading in the FTSE 100.
The rest is dealt on smaller platforms, in “dark pools” and through facilities offered by banks and brokers.
It is less clear that the market will provide enough competition in derivatives.
These products are the most lucrative to trade, and also promise the greatest growth in the wake of Dodd-Frank and other regulation pushing derivatives trading onto exchanges.
Since liquidity has proved most important to derivatives traders, the market leans towards a natural oligopoly.
Yet the US gave antitrust approval in 2007 to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's acquisition of its rival.
It now dominates US futures trading.
It is up to European regulators whether they follow the US or create a different model of securities market.
But the proposed Deutsche Börse and NYSE Euronext merger would at least create a European counterweight to CME.
If derivative exchanges are natural oligopolies, they should be regulated in the same way as other such near-monopolies.
Rather than fight the formation of global behemoths, policy makers must ensure they do not abuse their power.
Having fewer, larger players may offer some advantages: pricing is more transparent; trading is easier to monitor.
But if the mergers go ahead, regulators must have the tools and political will to hold them to account.
They must be ready for the task: this wave of exchange mergers is only just beginning.