Scha·den·freu·de (n): The pleasure derived by someone from another's misfortune.
Germany may have invented the word, but after Wednesday's failed government debt auction the rest of Europe was revelling in the sentiment.
The fact that investors shunned some 35 per cent of the €6bn 10-year Bund issue has been taken as a sign that even Europe's strongest economy is not impervious to the crisis engulfing the eurozone.
The hope in many European capitals is that Berlin may now be prompted to act more quickly in backing a comprehensive rescue package to restore confidence in the region.
Such an outcome, even if unlikely, would obviously be welcome after a sorry week.
Yet it would be wrong to overstate the implications of a single Bund auction.
It is not uncommon for Germany to fail to issue the full amount.
This is the ninth auction so far this year to fall short.
Moreover Bund yields still remain near record lows.
Returns in real terms have even moved into negative territory on six-month paper, implying that investors still look to Germany as a haven.
Nonetheless, the scale of the failure has set off alarm bells.
Not since the euro was created has there been such a big shortfall and there appear to be several factors at work.
First, it is possible that if Germany finally agrees to joint debt issuance through “eurobonds”, credit risk will rise.
It is equally true that it will face a greater potential liability when agreement is finally struck on reinforcing Europe's rescue fund.
Finally Berlin has been more insistent than most that sovereign debt can carry risk.
So it is logical that markets apply the same principle to the Bund.
But none of these factors on its own explains investors' lack of appetite this week.
If risks were rising more for Germany, why did German spreads move in tandem with those of Italy, for example?
The answer appears to be that investors are taking flight, not just from Germany, but the eurozone as a whole.
The weakening of the euro in recent days supports this view.
A weaker currency may be just what Europe needs to help buoy exports.
This may be desirable but the bad news is that it seems to have been fuelled by fears for the eurozone's future.
The Bund auction may have been a wake-up call to Berlin.
But it is also a signal to a fractious Europe that markets are losing patience with endless political dithering.
A credible plan must be agreed now, or today's pleasure in Germany's pain will be shortlived.