The moment has not yet arrived to take Washington off the suicide watch list.
But almost a fortnight into the government shutdown, it is encouraging that Republicans are starting to talk themselves down from the ledge.
The party's approval rating fell to 24 per cent this week – its lowest level in 70 years of Gallup polling.
Should Republican leaders allow their colleagues to risk a US sovereign default, they would be courting annihilation.
By offering to extend the US debt ceiling until November 22nd, John Boehner, the Republican speaker, is dangling a reprieve.
It is certainly a step back from the brink. But it does not go nearly far enough.
As underlined by the rally since Mr Boehner's change of tone on Thursday, the markets' overriding concern is over the threat to the full faith and credit of the United States.
The US government could stay shuttered for another two weeks without causing much of a ripple.
But any hint that its debt ceiling could be up for negotiation rightly causes anxiety.
President Barack Obama must stick to his principled refusal to bargain over an increase in the US debt ceiling.
It should be non-negotiable.
He is also right to rule out “prioritising” Treasury payments to US creditors.
Apart from its questionable legality, the politics of juggling US payments would be untenable.
No president could service US debts to China and other bond holders while cutting off retirees.
But Mr Obama's chief aim must be to steer Mr Boehner towards agreeing to a longer than six-week reprieve on the debt ceiling, which would push the threat of default into the Thanksgiving holiday season – the biggest moment of the year for retailers.
Mr Obama must also avoid agreeing to link the debt ceiling extension to any conditions.
In addition to debt prioritising, Mr Boehner wants Mr Obama to agree to set up a bipartisan committee to negotiate on the budget.
Any such effort would be welcome in its own right.
But it cannot be the condition on which the US does not default.
At some point in the very near future the two parties will have to agree to fund the US government again.
That will be the moment to debate their fiscal differences.
The blame for Washington's debacle is clear.
The American public says it is the Republicans who are responsible.
Given the bitterness, Mr Obama will be tempted to insist on unconditional Republican surrender on all fronts, including over the government shutdown.
Polls also blame Republicans for that.
But Mr Obama would be wise to help Mr Boehner save face while he climbs down.
A concession, here and there to end the shutdown would be wise.
Only the debt ceiling should be sacrosanct.