Jens Weidmann, president of Germany's Bundesbank, is concerned about the future of monetary policy.
In a speech this week, he claimed that some governments are eroding the independence of their central banks.
He also warned against the risks of a politicisation of exchange rates, which could bring the world back to the era of “competitive devaluations”.
For now, both fears are overstated.
This newspaper firmly believes in central bank independence.
Leaving politicians at the helm of monetary policy, as happened in the 1970s and 1980s, undermines their fiscal discipline and can result in high and volatile inflation.
Yet the power of technocrats is not absolute.
Democratically elected governments still have a role to play.
They have the right to choose a governor whose preferences regarding inflation are broadly consistent with their own.
In some countries, such as the UK, politicians also set the central bank's objectives.
Economies can also benefit from some co-ordination between fiscal and monetary policy.
This has become all the more evident since the crisis. True, monetary policy should not be a shortcut to growth, so that governments can avoid taking painful structural reforms.
But at a time in which both the public and the private sectors are deleveraging, governments have the right to ask for monetary easing.
When central bankers respond, they may be doing their job, not necessarily bowing to pressure.
As for the risk that a “currency war” is imminent, critics should look at the long-term trends.
Take the recent appreciation of the euro against the yen, which some monetary hawks see as proof of currency manipulation by the Bank of Japan.
The yen is still more expensive than it was at the beginning of the crisis.
The recent appreciation of the euro is more a consequence of the steps taken by the European Central Bank to remove the risk of a eurozone break-up, than any beggar-thy-neighbour policies by the BoJ.
Of course, when a central bank eases its monetary stance, its currency weakens.
This is one of the ways in which monetary policy works.
Yet one should not confuse every interest-rate cut for a deliberate attempt at currency manipulation.
A central bank may just be seeking to achieve other objectives.
In the case of Japan, this is to push the economy out of decades of deflation.
Such policies should be assessed on their merits, not on whether they are part of a hypothetical currency war.