Over the past decade, China has done well out of the principle of “non-interference” that governs its foreign policy.
An increasing number of countries has engaged with Beijing, encouraged by its stated disinclination to meddle in others' internal affairs.
Today, about 850,000 Chinese work abroad, with many thousands in potentially dangerous corners of Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Recent events in East Africa are now testing the sustainability of this laid-back doctrine.
The dispute between Sudan and South Sudan over how to share oil revenues following Juba's recent independence has blocked Beijing's seventh-largest supplier of crude oil.
The political chaos in the region has also led to the kidnapping of 29 Chinese workers, causing popular discontent in Beijing.
So far, China has conveniently relied on other countries to intercede for it.
The negotiations leading to last year's peace agreement were largely conducted by a troika formed by the US, UK and Norway.
The recent effort to resolve the oil dispute has been led by the African Union (AU).
Unfortunately for Beijing, free-riding is no longer an option.
South Sudan's rejection of the AU's proposal on how to share oil revenues has discredited it as an effective mediator.
As for the US, long-standing sanctions and its involvement in last year's partition of the country has made its relationship with Khartoum too poisonous for it to have credibility.
This leaves a political gap, which it would be only natural for China to fill.
The large loans that Beijing is channelling to Khartoum give China substantial leverage on the Sudanese government.
And despite long-standing suspicion between Beijing and Juba, negotiators from South Sudan have conceded that China is a long-term strategic partner for their country.
As escalating economic and political tensions risk a new armed conflict, China's closer involvement could clearly be desirable for the region.
Greater engagement would be in Beijing's self-interest too.
Non-interference has served China well in giving it an entree to the developing world.
But to protect the interests it has fostered, it cannot always hang back and expect others to sort out problems.