Leaders emerged from the latest summit that should have rescued Europe with two main proposals in hand.
The first was a set of stricter budgetary rules to form a “fiscal compact”.
The second was a pledge to increase the International Monetary Fund firepower to help it rescue the troubled European periphery.
The plan would require European Union countries to lend €200bn from their central banks.
If this was forthcoming – a big if – it would supplement the €290bn the IMF can currently deploy.
EU leaders hope that non-European countries will then match their contribution with a further €200bn.
This would allow the IMF, together with the eurozone's own rescue funds, to meet the gross financing needs of Spain and Italy for several years.
The conditionality clause attached to an IMF involvement – so the argument runs – should reassure lenders that their money would not be squandered.
It should also facilitate recipient governments' efforts to reform their countries.
But there are good reasons to be sceptical of Europe's latest cunning plan.
The first is that the eurozone does not need IMF help.
Taken as a whole, the monetary union is in external balance.
Its problem is not a lack of resources, but the political unwillingness of member states to finance each other when markets seize up.
Such divisions will not be conjured away by wheeling the IMF into play.
That is why the plan is unlikely to see the light of day.
Many old sticking points remain.
For instance, the Bundesbank's insistence on other countries outside the region taking part is explicitly designed to get round its objection to anything that smacks of monetary financing of eurozone governments.
But it is far from clear whether non-European countries will want to take part.
Even if the IMF was equipped to participate in further eurozone rescues, it is unclear whether this would do much good.
It may be hard to impose conditionality on countries such as Italy and Spain.
As IMF loans have senior status vis-à-vis any outstanding loans, the two countries may lose access to the private credit market.
The sad truth is that, by calling for the involvement of the IMF, European countries are confirming how little trust they have in each other.
Rather than chasing yet another not-so-clever plan, the EU must restore a common purpose and a sense of solidarity.
The way out of the crisis is not to act as a group of states that just happen to share a common currency.