The Occupy movement has never wanted for celebrity backers, whether the actress Susan Sarandon or the academic Noam Chomsky.
However, the protesters who camped in Wall Street and the City of London last year probably never envisaged a central banker offering support for their message.
Yet even this has now come to pass.
In a speech on Monday, Andrew Haldane, a senior official at the Bank of England, expressed sympathy for Occupy's claim that the global financial system was broken.
He also praised the protesters for their analysis: at the root of the financial crisis, Mr Haldane agreed, lay problems of deep and rising inequality.
There is something to be said for such a display of freethinking by a top BoE official.
Whatever one thinks of the tactics or objectives of the Occupy movement, its critique of the pre-crunch system was at least in part spot on.
The rewards offered by the financial sector were excessive and encouraged its overexpansion.
This not only created an unstable system that ultimately had to be rescued by taxpayers; it also caused long- term economic damage by diverting talent and funding away from research-intensive sectors.
Repairing this neglect will take years.
Mr Haldane could perhaps have larded his praise with some criticism.
Occupy was wrong to assert that inequality is an inevitable consequence of free-market capitalism, for instance.
The too-big-to-fail institutions that populated pre-crisis banking were the opposite of what free markets should beget.
But perhaps, as the movement's guest, Mr Haldane felt it would be impolite to point this out.
He did, however, enumerate ways in which policy makers are seeking to make the system work better, whether by tightening capital requirements, or ring fencing investment banking arms off from retail subsidiaries.
Boldly, he even suggested that the repair of the system was an endeavour in which central bankers and Occupy were jointly engaged.
Whether the reforms announced to date will be sufficient is moot, as Mr Haldane admitted.
Capital requirements may need to be higher, and separation of retail and investment banking more firmly enforced.
Most importantly, too little has been done to increase competition.
While there have been new entrants, these are too small.
Without more competition, big banks will have little incentive to change their business model.
Even Occupy would agree this is no salutary outcome.