The Federal Reserve is still buying $85bn-worth of securities a month.
But hints that the spree may soon slow down have put markets on edge – the more so the further they are from the US.
The economic transformation in emerging countries, however, runs too deep to be undone by a mere market gale.
If bad times lie ahead, the long-term horizon for most of them is bright.
There is ample bad news.
The Indian rupee has lost another 2.5 per cent so far this week against the dollar and is at a record low.
Indonesia's rupiah is down 3.6 per cent; its stock market 9 per cent.
The sell-off spans countries from Thailand to Turkey, South Africa and Brazil.
A broad disaffection is becoming entrenched: equity funds have seen outflows in eight of the past 12 weeks; bond funds have been bleeding since May.
Worries that this presages a full-scale financial meltdown are premature.
Although many emerging countries are experiencing credit bubbles caused by the rich world's crisis management, the composition of capital flows is healthier than before the Asian financial crisis.
On average more than half of inflows to emerging markets are equity capital, much of it direct investment.
Many countries have big reserves or floating currencies with which to mitigate portfolio flow reversals – lessons learnt in Asia's last crisis.
Even India, with a large current account deficit, has a tolerable net asset position (but many other problems).
Things look worse for countries on the European fringe, such as Turkey.
Tighter credit can still put a brake on growth.
A rough awakening may very well result in countries that have relied largely on credit to drive development.
But the fundamental strengths of economies that have managed decades of strong growth will not be rocked by tapering and its short-term market consequences, nor even by a slower growth trend.
High growth in the first decade of the 2000s was boosted by macroeconomic imbalances that, while inflating bubbles in the west, also fed the voracious demand on which Chinese factories and its supply chains thrived.
Settling for a lower but less precarious rate may not be a bad thing.
The emerging world has plenty of challenges.
Naturally, it must take care to navigate the current market turmoil and the damage it may cause.
Its economies must also continue to reform to fulfil their potential to catch up with the rich world.
But most of these economies' achievements so far show that a long-term path of economic progress is open to them beyond the short-term bumps in the road.