Mario Monti's decision to step down as Italy's prime minister has rattled markets, which had grown comfortable with the relative stability of technocratic government.
Rome's borrowing costs shot up and the stock market dropped after his resignation announcement.
But Mr Monti made the right choice.
On Friday, the secretary of Silvio Berlusconi's centre-right People of Liberty party declared that the government had reached the end of the road.
In theory, Mr Monti could have asked for a formal vote of confidence.
But seeking to strike a deal with Mr Berlusconi would only have added to political uncertainty.
Besides, there should be no compromise with the media tycoon-cum-politician who has all too often sacrificed the future of his country to his own personal interest.
The general election originally scheduled for the spring is now likely to be held in February.
The return of politics to Rome is to be welcomed.
The technocratic interlude was needed to help Italy to restore its credibility.
However, only an elected government will have the legitimacy to implement the reforms Italy needs.
The economy must be guided out of deep recession and there is a mountain of debt to be dealt with.
Unfortunately, the political choice on offer seems inadequate to the task.
On the right, Mr Berlusconi plans a comeback. But as the man who has contributed more than anyone to Italy's crisis, he lacks the credibility to run Rome again.
The polls show this.
The comedian Beppe Grillo has no such toxic legacy, but his Five Star Movement lacks a coherent economic programme.
Pier Luigi Bersani, the leader of the Democrats, has shown reassuring pragmatism on economic policy. But his leftwing allies are very likely to tie his hands when it comes to cutting expenditure and reforming the labour market.
All of which leaves a political space for Mr Monti, who has been asked by centrist groups to run for prime minister.
As a grand commis who has spent his entire life above the political fray, the one-time economics professor is rightly worried about losing his non-partisan role.
But at this critical juncture, his liberal instincts could be a striking alternative to Mr Berlusconi's populism and a helpful counterweight to the uncertain reforming spirit of the Democrats.
Italians have learnt to appreciate Mr Monti's sober style.
At the very least his presence in the electoral race would give voters a greater choice and bring much-needed quality to Italian politics.