The European Commission has discreetly proposed to have member states make good the losses of private banks before they are recapitalised with eurozone rescue funds.
If the currency union accepts this principle, it will definitively break its promise to pry apart the lethal embrace between banks and sovereigns – and jeopardise the calm that this vow imparted to markets.
Last June the European Council belatedly accepted the danger that a country's sovereign debt and the debts of its private banks drag one another down.
Leaders' new-found understanding of the problem and their seeming intent to do something about it eased pressure on Spain, which secured a eurozone rescue package for its banks shortly afterwards.
It also bettered credit conditions for Ireland, which was promised that “similar cases will be treated equally”.
Germany and a rump of other creditor countries have since tried to claw back this concession to financial reality by rejecting the use of European Stability Mechanism funds directly to recapitalise banks damaged by the crisis.
What once looked like a tactical stance to secure German preferences on a banking union deal now looks like a substantive demand.
To have caved in to this pressure disgraces the commission.
It proposes that no ESM funds be given to banks in negative equity as this would constitute a transfer, nor to banks with less capital than the regulatory minimum as this runs a risk of losses.
The implication of fiscal transfers – certain or potential – is of course correct.
The policy conclusion is not.
The eurozone powers' obstinate refusal to condone writedowns of senior creditors to private banks means that the alternative to ESM funds is bank bailouts by national treasuries.
In the Irish case, nearly half the country's annual income has gone to making whole private, risk-taking investors, mostly from other euro members.
In Spain, bank bailouts may benefit domestic investors – but only because foreign ones were given time to collect maturing claims rather than see them written down.
The cross-border capital flows in the euro's first decade mean that if private creditors are to be made whole, it is wrong to pin the bill on deficit country citizens alone.
Creditors' governments must pitch in – especially when they are the ones insisting on bailouts.
A better solution from here on is to let the market work and not have taxpayers pay for private mistakes at all.
Bank resolution schemes must let senior bond investors, too, face the outcome of the risks they take.