In 1999, a massive cyclone hit the Indian state of Orissa, bringing immense destruction in its wake. More than 10,000 people were killed.
Last month, a cyclone of similar dimensions hit Orissa, again causing immense destruction. This time, just 15 people died.
The huge difference in the death toll can be explained by one factor: in the years before the 2013 cyclone, the Indian authorities had put in place elaborate plans to protect the local population.
As the world's media reports on the devastation caused by Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines, the lesson of Orissa deserves attention.
More than 4,000 people have been killed in the Philippines and the death toll may go higher.
The US, Britain and other nations have sent warships to the region to help relieve the suffering.
But while the international rescue effort is necessary and well-intentioned, the brutal reality is that any post-disaster response can only do a limited amount to mitigate the death toll.
What really makes the difference in most disasters is how much money governments and donors have invested in the years before the event on “preparedness”.
This aspect of humanitarian aid gets too little attention.
In the case of Orissa, the value of preparedness was clear.
The state authorities trained thousands of people in how to respond to a cyclone.
They built hundreds of shelters within a few kilometres of human habitations. They instructed local officials to arrest people who refused to leave their homes when a cyclone approached.
In the Philippines, preparedness seems to have been far lower.
Few would doubt that the climatic challenges facing the archipelago are immense.
But even taking into account the unprecedented strength of Typhoon Haiyan, too little money was spent ahead of the disaster building up the resilience of local communities.
The lessons should be learnt well beyond the Philippines.
In general, far too little donor money is spent on mitigating the risks of future natural disasters.
A report by Global Humanitarian Assistance, a think-tank, shows that disaster risk reduction last year amounted to less than 5 per cent of the world's expenditure on development aid.
This is too little.
When a natural disaster strikes, the searing television coverage in western states nearly always prompts a generous response from politicians and the public.
That is understandable. But we need to reflect on how donor cash can be used to protect people before natural disaster strikes – and not just after.