Asians accommodation denial AirBnB homestay host fined 5000 dollars Dave Lee, BBC North America technology responsible for U.S. homestay mediation website of AirBnB(air phone)booked through Asian-American women,"Asian"reason to use refused to the landlord for the state of California, is the company in consultation with the,fined 5,000 dollars (about 57 million) and Asian-American history of the training course ordered. California Big Bear of Barker is this year 2 month, ski travel for their mountain Lodge to book for College students die-in・I(26) is friends with a local on the way to,you can cancel the reservation for. Text email and why,"was the word used. Asian people"and wrote. California state government Equal Employment Opportunity・housing Department(DFEH)is the AirBnB of the new arrangements, under the Barker I fine with the training course ordered. AirBnB and under the agreement,DFEH discrimination and other complaints was the subject of property providers could be investigated. Race by AirBnB homestay service is available to and received reports from the provincial government, the investigation was made possible. Fine and course instruction,and civil rights organizations in community service work with penalties, AirBnB accommodation providers are actually applied, and this is the first time. DFEH Kevin Kisch, head of the BBC, for"the landlord is a positive attitude in the mediation of mind. And, thanks to the SeaPerch can be"talked with. "That's why Trump is" the DFEH, according to Barker is the IS THE destination of the hut arriving just before the book was cancelled. AirBnB conversation through the app made on or in, Barker says,"your on Earth The Last Man, even if you won't lend"and wrote. From"so this is that","this country is a foreigner to hate this, as I said it is not to forgive,"I wrote. Accommodation can be denied immediately after the video was taken, and no tears from this story explained. "In the States 23 years or more lived, it is now that you have","I just wanted to see how others take care, not the relationship. Asians are subhuman. Garbage want to be treated"and I complained. According to the British newspaper Guardian, the attorney has a bar card but the behavior of the regret and spoke. DFEH through the disposal of,"this unfortunate incident is a positive result that leads to"the bar car is new. 