Rice of Seattle in the suburbs of Indian men being shot the culprit is"their country back"and rice in the Western state of Washington in Seattle 3 night Indian men with guns man in the arm was shot in the incident received, the police hate the team(hate crime)including the possibility of investigation was started. During its escape the gunman opened fire at the men,"your country back"and told that. The victim was a Sikh of Indian men,us-born 39-year-old. The Seattle suburb of Kent City's home before the man was shot. According to the police, opened fire before the 2 people who is short for words as you like. The culprit is a white man, height 180 cm strength was body. In the United States last month, the Midwest of Kansas at Indian of the men shot it. The gunman opened fire just before the"My country get out"and cried and used. Star of India map・one page, foreign Minister,3 on the day shot were men of father and talk on the phone, and description. Men the lives of workers and not in the hospital, medical help recovering said. Kent Police Department Ken Thomas, chief 5 days to open a press conference, the crime is premeditated or so of the view shown. The culprit is the face of the lower half covered with. The police is Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)to contact such as and hair and as the investigation may be. Us Sikh Organization of"the Union", the 3 days of the incident to help the team to do it. Organizations such as the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association,"this kind of attack corresponding to the state and local authorities efforts to appreciate the country's leaders hate the Prevention of the most important issues that you need"and the document said. Seattle area Muslim organizations, led by the Jazz summit・Mr Singh,"anti-Syria Muslim heritage and as the investigation can be very important. Government hatred of it, and so admitted, unless the problem with the fight is not possible,"he said. Live in the United States, Indian residents of the many,Donald Trump the US President is a Muslim to violently criticize the words said, the foreign workers American jobs taken by the accused concerns that is telling. In the United States, Sikhs and Muslims will be confused often. In 2001, 9. 11 terrorist attacks shortly after the incident, the Sikh was attacked multiple cases in which the reported. The incident received, Kent City of the Sikhs or their religious practices to be explained and told. Local Sikh leaders, top Download Download・cover art says,"our society and our faith, we have why the turban, why did this dressed like that from anything, answer questions,teach and are prepared to,"he said. 