Preventable dementia, 9 factors=English papers Fergus Walsh medical correspondent, of dementia 3 reviews in 1. reviews,lifestyle habits such as lifelong brain health for conscious behavior can prevent--. The British Medical magazine The Lancet this most published studies are pointed out. In the study, the less educated and the hearing of a decrease, Smoking and lack of exercise are the main risk factors as listed. Research findings this month in London opened the international Alzheimer's Disease conference(AAIC)published in the. By 2050, the world's dementia patients are 1 billion 3100 million people could reach. Currently 4700 million people have dementia and it is estimated that. The thesis of the first author acted as a community・the village・London Gill Livingston, Professor,"dementia later in life diagnosed with a brain incident is usually many years ago starting from,"he says. "Now if you act, dementia patients and families of significant improvement in the lives can be, it is society as a whole to change the future, and that" experts across the globe 24 people by based on the research for this thesis, the Prevention of dementia is a life style to a large extent and pointed out. In the study,in the course of life a head by using the stored"cognitive reserve force", the brain is damaged when,how to maintain the function of contribute to find out. Completed secondary education is a big risk, the authors,and even as an adult continue to learn if the brain's"reserve force"to increase the likely to have said. Also, in middle age hearing decreases and,from the surroundings usually receive a lot of information can not be obtained, the socially isolated, depression could become high. This also Dementia Risk Factors and Prevention is possible. Research is another big issue,good for the heart and brain, as well as the good points. Non-Smoking and exercise, maintaining a healthy weight, high blood pressure and diabetes, all cardiovascular disease and cancer, as well as the risk of dementia to a decrease in also lead. The researchers,diet and alcohol intake on dementia and the impact is enough data to reflect from one,both important elements to get said. Ying Alzheimer's Association, principal investigator,Doug Dr. Brown,"avoidance impossible and it's not like it's,dementia in the 21st century the greatest cause of death to momentum only. We all are aware of the risks, and lifestyle improve, you need to start,"he said. Also, the British research Institute"Alzheimer Research UK"the Chief Science Officer(CSO),David Reno rose Dr.,"prevention in addition to research(dementia) in people who have suffered a life change such as treatment of research investment and continue to do,"he said. Prevention of dementia possible factors of risk and the degree of prevention is possible and that the above factors of risk degree of total and 35% of the. The remaining 65%is an individual effort no risk. (Dementia prevention・intervention・treatment for The Lancet Commission from other materials) 