That issue arose in R. v. Secretary of State for Transport, ex parte Factortame Ltd. 67 where it was claimed by Spanish fishing-boat operators that provisions in the Merchant Shipping Act 1988 were in conflict with Community law. The background to this claim lay in the fact that Spanish fishing interests had formed companies registered in the United Kingdom to which Spanish fishing boats were transferred in order to benefit from the EEC fishing quota allocated ta the United Kingdom. In protection of British fishing interests, the 1988 Act introduced various tests which foreign owners had to satisfy before their boats could be registered in the United Kingdom. If the Act came into force, the Spanish-owned companies would have to stop fishing; the economic loss that they would suffer while the matter was referred from English courts to the Luxemburg court would not be recoverable from the British government, even if the 1988 Act was eventually held to be inconsistent with their Community rights. The central issue was not whether the Act of 1988 was itself contrary to Community law, as it was later held to be,68 but the vital procedural point of whether the English courts could grant interim relief to the Spanish fishermen against the British government while the case was before the European Court on an Article 177 reference. In effect, the applicants were asking that the Merchant Shipping Act 1988 should be disapplied by the English court. In its first Factortame decision, the House of Lords held that it had no jurisdiction to grant such relief, primarily for the reason that the 1988 Act must be presumed to be valid until the contrary had been shown. A secondary reason was that the English courts had no power to issue an interim injunction against the Crown or the Secretary' of State for Transport.69 But the House of Lords referred to the European Court of Justice the question of whether there was an 'overriding principle of Community law' that required national courts to secure effective interim protection for the applicants' rights in Community law. 68 R. v. Secretary of State/or Transport, ex parte Factortame Ltd. (No. 3) [1991] 2 Lloyd's Rep. 648. 69 This part of the decision was later reversed by the House of Lords In re M. [1993] 3WLR 433.