Following these reforms, the entire population is covered by family practitioners. Since 1992 people have been able to freely choose their family practitioners. Until 1996, practically all citizens took advantage of the possibility to choose their primary health care physician. The financing arrangements do provide incentives to family practitioners to work as private entrepreneurs, and the proportion of practitioners with private practice therefore increased rapidly from 10% to about four fifths of all practitioners between 1992 and 1997. From 1992, postgraduate training for general practitioners was made compulsory, and undergraduate training for family physicians was introduced in medical universities. The primary health care system also includes a network of nurses for maternal and child care and a network for dental care. The latter is privately financed, and the private sector plays a greater and more important role in dental care than does the public sector. However, each citizen has access to primary dental care. A defined set of dental care services can be accessed at a reduced rate, and regular dental check-ups are provided. The major problem within primary care is the unequal distribution of care, in terms of both [Seite 34] quantity and quality. The main objectives in developing primary health care are prevention and rehabilitation as well as the home nursing services, which have been operating since 1995 (Ministry of Welfare, 1997a; Vogler & Habl, 1999). There is also the possibility that the funding of general practitioners based largely on the number of patients registered does not provide any incentive for them to treat patients within primary care and may lead to inappropriate hospital referrals (Hungarian Governmental Decree, 1999). Secondary and tertiary care As developments in Hungary since the 1960s focused on increasing the volume of buildings and hospital beds, the standards of medical equipment fell seriously behind. Modern diagnostic and therapeutic equipment first appeared in considerable quantities with economic liberalization in the early 1990s, when private investors were allowed into the health care market. There are about 250 polyclinics (about 150 polyclinics affiliated with hospitals and about 100 independent polyclinics), which provide diagnostics and therapeutic support to primary health care. An important and developing area is ambulatory care and day surgery (noninvasive and micro-invasive procedures) which can replace inpatient care and surgery. Central development programmes and changes in financing are being implemented to promote outpatient specialist services in polyclinics and hospitals so that they can replace more expensive forms of health care and improve the quality and efficiency of patient care.