The Taoist God of the plane, overseas visits seat is business class, Taoist statues 3 body this month,in the capital city of Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur including visit to Fujian province, China Xiamen from boarding the plane, when a photo of social media in attracting attention to. Public as a treatment, the seats are business class was with. The first 1 the body of the sea goddess"Mazu (or that)". Fishing and sailing as the God of southern China widely in the faith, and for the followers of Taoism and Chinese residents of Buddhists, many, Malaysia, Vietnam, Taiwan, etc and also faith that have been. From 2 body is a goddess to serve clairvoyance and favorable wind ear called the demon still. Clairvoyant is,from your perspective power,favorable wind ears are carried on the wind as well as any small sound can be heard with the ability to. Neither the boat people, the approaching storm prediction is an important capability. Why business class? 3 the body of the statues of the visit abroad,Mazu, and we try festivals to participate in cultural exchange tour to the start of the match Fujian province, the temple of the"GDP of the state Mazu Ancestral Temple"planning, Malaysia and Singapore to visit. Chinese social media spread pictures,statues, and enshrined near the sea of the temple to depart, Xiamen (Amon)Takasaki International Airport"check-in"appearance that is reflected. Messaging app"WeChat(sweet moments)"of the user, Tong・Hui Chung is a"security check how do I through this?" And comments. Another user of the Ghost・Chan is,"Mazu has to travel is not uncommon. Too far in on the plane or not. Ship me some time too"I commented. GDP of the province, Mazu Ancestral Temple official told the BBC News for,of all your Xiamen travel needs with China's leading online travel Agency the flights of your statues is"more than 130 of you"was said. Seat tickets and purchased, the fee is 1 Body 2091 yuan (about 3 million 5000 yen)was. The airline staff to help them,the believers, the icons to the seat fixed. Seats to"spread out"space for the. Turbulence encounter can be considered as a special harness is used. In Malaysia statues greet the participants of Public Relations is usually the seat of it was about moving,"goddess Mazu to pay should be the basic respect,"he said. "It's back to the height of 6 feet (about 183 cm), business class not only did not". Statues special passport also prepared. The temple according to officials, the airline"special services"yet. 