Apple, iPhone unit sales for the first time last year cracking potential and Apple is 26 days, 2015 10-12 months ended financial results announced. iPhone sales in 2007 since its launch, the lowest growth this year for the first time last year to interrupt the prospect and revealed. Apple, according to the 10-12 year on year iPhone sales 7480 million in the same period last year, of 7450 million units, up slightly from. This quarter the company's sales and 68% of iPhone sales due to that. 1-3 month period of sales prospects is a 500 billion-530 billion dollars (about 5 trillion 9000 billion yen to 6 trillion, 2500 billion). Year on year sales of 580 billion dollars. The prospect of the street, the iPhone launch for the first time since the beginning of sales year-over-year to interrupt that. iPhone sales top analysts ' expectations of 7500 million was below the 10-12 year on year sales reached a record high of 759 billion dollars (approximately 9 trillion yen). The net profit to 18.4 billion dollars (about 2 trillion, 1700 million yen) and the highest on record. Tim Cook Chief Executive Officer(CEO)is"iPhone,Apple Watch, Apple TV of record sales"the sales record for their contribution to the evaluation. However Luca・Maestri Chief Financial Officer (CFO), the company is"very difficult macroeconomic environment"surrounded by and admit,1-3 month period iPhone sales are forecasted to decline said. The next quarter about the prospects out to do. Maestri said, performance is sluggish so one of the reasons is the high dollar to say,the high dollar influence of 50 billion dollars worth of sales lost as the calculations showed. China has"never seen weak," China, Hong Kong and Taiwan sales up 14 percent, but year on year, a 70% increase was considerably slowed down. Going into the Maestri says the Chinese market's weakness is"that"and concern. Apple in the Chinese market sales account for approximately 25% of that. The scale of the whole of Europe a total of more than. The gross profit rate is 40. 1% expansion. "Best balance sheet" CCS Insight analyst Geoff Bray bar Mr. Apple's gross margin is"the industry standard is beyond", the 2160 billion nearly $ retained earnings left in the hand, and pointed. Cook CEO analysts for the"best balance sheet"said,funding is not strong in the state and explained. Apple Inc. shares after-hours trading at 2. 7%down,97 dollars 28 cents find. Apple shareholders at a Capital Markets analyst Daniel up he was,before the earnings announcement"everyone is clench his fist so nervous that"I think,"the whole grade is afraid more is good"was evaluated as. <Analysis>local・case line=Jones, BBC technology, in charge of the editorial Board of this other company, record sales and net income announced from investors, from the warm welcome from all. But Apple has to be one of the highest of the record can,over stuffed, you can fall from. But this time of financial concern for investors backing a containing content. iPhone the most profitable product to produce your company in addition to would not. But the iPhone sales is that cost growth was not. In addition the following 3 months in 2007, sales for the first time since the beginning of the sales decrease is expected. In addition, China is also a problem. Yet growth has been slowing. In China, the iPhone is still a heartthrob, but the Apple is in China the market is weak, to say. In those situations, Xiaomi(Xiao Min)local businesses like of cheaper competing products towards the consumers which might attract. Of course the iPhone"peak"of concern before it even surfaced, but the iPhone6 great success by 雲散霧消 for. Last year's"6S"is a small upgrade in the past, and this year 9 month and major changes can be expected. However, profits continue to expand for a new big hit to send the goods is with the, Apple from. Apple Watch The Big Hit is not. Apple Watch sales about what the figures also not been announced still. Apple fans and investors is,well, the next innovation we get that. Technician 1000 people who are working on the development of the Apple Car rumors. Maybe it is, fans and investors that innovation is not. 