Mr Putin,of course, before the FBI Director's testimony from Sarah lanes Ford, BBC News (Moscow) Russia's Vladimir Putin on the 15th, from the public phone to broadcast live TV directly to receive the annual dialogue, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)of James・the army got cancer Officer information leakage(would not) Of responsibility if the position is at stake if his defection to Russia if that joke flew. The army got cancer officer is Donald Trump the President and the contents of the conversations to the dismissal after the mass provided with the Senate at the hearing testified he was referring. Russian President Vladimir Putin, US agencies bugged by the activities exposed by the current Russian resident Edward Snowden as an example, and if the Mr. in the United States legally liable to that,"political asylum if we accept that"and laughed. Senate hearing of course, Mr. Russia in 2016, the US President chose to intervene and the fact that is undoubtedly,serious, and"Russia is coming"and testified. About this President Vladimir Putin what is the evidence of this and scoff,but try not. But this year's"dialogue"program, Putin said,diplomacy than domestic Affairs which many took up. The President is nearly 4 hours from around the nation, from the phone answered. Underpaid and poor medical care, poor roads, such as dissatisfaction, listen to the show sympathy, the provincial government cadres criticism or instructions for. "Generous to Vladimir Putin"the figure of a spread,kneaded it for a show. From our state of on the other hand,the program at the beginning of the President, the public is alarmingly low overlap, and 13%more than in a state of poverty that most of the national income is being depleted and acknowledged. Mr Putin is on top of that, the economy is back on a growth track for their highest priority is to keep it this week. However, the next presidential election in 1 year got off to now,you only have to indicate the Russians were also. The screen flow text email, the tenure is 3 phase so enough with Mr Putin in comments about your. In Moscow interview to the BBC's Steve Rosenberg, the correspondent"your"throne"to sit long too. In Russia, the entire thought so that"the viewer comments on national television on the screen of the flow and pointed. "Gold is not it, and I told you so"and also post a screen in the flow. Further,"this is a farce so","Vladimir・Vladislav Mironov bitch, bye!" Comments, such as the screen flows to the audience the message on the screen well. Of the show after the BBC Mr Putin in Japan recently a series of anti-government protests asked about. Mr Putin, the legitimate protest is part of democracy, and the answer was on anti-government protests on the back of the person(the name is given without a)thinking about ourselves and not criticized. In Russia the leadership of alleged corruption to protest against a demonstration called the hanging of opposition leader Alexei na Wali Nui said, next year's presidential race following the policy. Mr Putin himself is re-aiming of the about whether,this and further statements to be avoided, but the BBC for one of the country's Top continued long-term administration of the example countries, the"legal"from"no problem", he said. 