Iraq military strategic point the heart to retake the Iraqi army in the capital, Baghdad from about 90 km to the West hub Ramadi government complex to the extremist organization"Islamic State"(IS)from was recaptured. The military spokesperson for the 27 announced on Thursday. The press Secretary, the Iraqi army is the government building of the hotel"complete control", and IS combatants have left signs that said not. On the other hand, in Ramadi city in several places, the battle that followed admitted. The Iraqi government is the retake for this week over the attack had. Muslim Sunni many of the Year 5 On On is is invaded,the Iraqi army and the defeat had been. <The battle is even harder> the Iraqi army these days IS got gimmick bombs and mines while dodging the center, proceed to the other area also encompassed. Government office from IS of the sniper is to stop and wait for the sky, from the reconnaissance in the movement of people is to make sure the soldiers went inside and. The recapture government building facilities control and had. Facilities the bomb was charged with no check from the Iraqi army slowly advanced. Force the battle continues in nearby areas are also being deployed. The government is Ramadi fighting in the success and 自賛 would be. 5 months into the government there withdrew of in contrast with. However, the international air strikes in cooperation with the ground to months of time were necessary. Iraq's high double・Abadi Prime Minister,near the army in the Northern city of Mosul to retake undertake to have said. This is an even bigger achievement to get. However, in Iraq, IS dominated by the most populous place,the battle was going to be tough. The in fighting IS a combatant for the number of exactly, but some 400 people were expected. Iraqi military casualties, the number of formal announcement or not. The Iraqi army IS remaining soldiers towards the Northeast and thinking. Also, the government office of the South-West side in battle followed that. Baghdad in the interview to BBC of・object sheet according to the reporter, up front is the civilian population of hundreds of family is hamstrung by, and safety are concerned. IS and combat situation of the whole picture is still not know, the AFP Iraq's many towns celebrate the victory, the state was seen and reported that. The recapture strategy 11 the beginning of October began,the outcome of raising the it was time consuming. It is one of the factors in the government sect term to avoid confrontation, and North of Tikrit for the recapture mobilized,the Shiite lot of strong forces, with paramilitary groups in this is to seek the support was not there. 