Venezuela diet regime the support of the crowd burst into the deputies from the temporary confinement to a serious economic crisis to face South America in the Venezuelan capital Caracas in 5 days,Nicolas and complex flavor elevating the Ashton aged Maduro to the President of the support of the crowd is anti-government faction dominated the Parliament burst into a few of the deputies to assault you. The National Assembly in Venezuela celebrate Independence Day with a plenary session just ended was. According to AFP,the crowd is a stick or pipe with a gate to beat the invasion from the scene, were military police on the sidelines as. The government is the facts to investigate and promised. The National Assembly of the Julio・Borges Chairman,about 350 people for hours and hours by the National Assembly in the trapped said. The Chairman at Twitter, 108 of the reporter, in addition to students and visitors also trapped and wrote. Borges Chairman of the injured deputies 5 the name of the person revealed. Some of the deputies was transported to the hospital. The head of the bandage is covered in blood by Armando Armas deputies ambulance ride when,"our country has lost a lot of to observe on a daily basis as I can,"he said. The U.S. State Department"206 years ago today, Venezuela for independence fought by men and women was important for democratic principles to attack", said the raids on the accused. According to witnesses, the reporter found a few people and 2 people of the parliamentary staff were also injured with. The local paper on the stack, the RAID was"the boss"referred to the militia as the rocket, artillery, and firecrackers using the diet within into the and tell you. According to the newspaper, some MPs are"on the floor fell down, (the mob was). we kick it"with. Social media, assaulted his head from the blood flow to the injured sight of the photos and the video spread. Americo・De・Gracia deputies and a person on a stretcher to get carried out how the shooting was. According to AFP,members of the mob who is the reporter to leave the scene and asked that that. Mob one of gun possession. The incident at the time,Maduro is the President of Caracas in another place,the government was organized by the Independence Day military parade in the speech at all...... The incident just prior to the data collection El・icon Sami Vice-President-Vladimir・the Reno・Lopez defense Minister, such as Ministers from accompanied by the National Assembly without any notice to appear, people against the National Assembly gathered in the President to Express their support and ask you to speech or. The crowd is a diet burst into that a few hours ago from the National Assembly in front of the demonstration had done. Venezuela's National Assembly in 2015 12 month of the outcome of the elections,the opposition majority for the President to criticize the forces of the stronghold had become. Anti-presidential faction in the past 3 months, nationwide street protests, but security forces and demonstrators in the clashes between,at least 90 people have died. The victim is out responsibility to the President faction and the anti-presidential faction, both sides have accused. Diet interruptions can happen a few hours ago, Luisa・Ortega・Diaz, Attorney General of 4 the date of the court rejected the ex officio stop faced. Some media reports, the appointment of judges for Diaz to the Secretary of the illegal activities that have been. Diaz Secretary of Maduro and the President's reform plan to the contrary, it makes the front page of the New York Times. Venezuela's Supreme Court last week, Ortega Commissioner of the immigration is prohibited,all assets were frozen. Ortega Secretary 4 days went to the press conference,"I was relieved of duty so that everyone can know,"he said. Ortega Secretary last week,a stolen police helicopter last month 27 days in Caracas fly over,hand grenades, and dropped, the firing was about,Maduro the President fiercely criticized. Maduro the President is a"terrorist attack"yet, but Ortega Commissioner of Venezuela is"state terrorism"of suffering under and said. The stolen helicopter near the shore in the security forces was discovered by. Opposition politicians of Borges National Assembly Chairman,the incident was concocted and was claimed. Currently on the run in to fly the helicopter as Oscar Perez Police 4 days on the Internet to post videos and still Caracas the city that said. Perez police officers in the video the Venezuelan people against the Maduro to the President of the protest demonstration continued to complained. 