Dominique Strauss-Kahn's days as head of the International Monetary Fund look numbered.
Following his arrest in New York on sex charges, there are growing calls for him to step down immediately to avoid damaging the institution.
Natural justice demands that Mr Strauss-Kahn should not be pushed until he has had a chance to present his side of the story.
Only when the case proceeds to trial does the argument for his departure become unanswerable.
The IMF need not panic if this comes to pass as it has a competent deputy in place in the shape of John Lipsky.
It is to be hoped that he can if necessary be persuaded to stay on beyond August, when he had planned to step down.
But while the search for a replacement should not be rushed, it cannot be long delayed.
With the IMF at a critical juncture, a leadership vacuum must be avoided.
There will be a temptation - given the Fund's history and its deep involvement in the eurozone debt crisis – simply to reach for another European to head the institution.
But while this might seem the easier course, it would be a mistake.
The Fund's shareholders should cast their net widely in the search for a possible successor.
This is not simply because of the eastward shift of economic power, which has rendered the long-established European and American practice of stitching up the top jobs at the IMF and the World Bank look anachronistic.
It has also to do with the task at hand.
Mr Strauss-Kahn played a key role in persuading eurozone leaders to partner with the IMF in tackling the Greek crisis, accepting both the Fund's help and the conditionality that came along with it.
But the challenge ahead is different.
With Greece coming back for a second round of borrowing, it will be either to convince the Europeans to accede to a restructuring if the conclusion is reached that Greece is insolvent, or to persuade the rest of the world to back further loans if it is not.
Arguably, either course calls for the critical detachment of an outsider as much as the political nous that carries weight in European chancelleries.
It is also a vital decision, as much for the Fund as for the eurozone.
The wrong choice could blow the IMF's reputation with financial markets and politicians alike.
Given the stakes, the next IMF head must be picked purely on merit.
The best candidate should have a sound grasp of economics, political clout and the ability to run a large bureaucracy.
He or she may ultimately be a European, but it should not be pre-ordained.