Now that the resounding inconclusiveness of the Greek people's vote on its own future has led to a new election being called, the leaders of Europe are treating the second poll as the referendum on Greece's relationship with the euro that they denied it last November.
Better late than never.
If the Greeks do not want to stay in the currency union, there is no point in cajoling or bullying them into staying.
As José Manuel Barroso, EU commission president, rightly said yesterday, “the ultimate resolve to stay in the euro area must come from Greece itself”.
In the May 6 election, two-thirds of voters supported parties opposed to the austerity policies imposed by the eurozone and the International Monetary Fund as a condition for rescue loans.
At the same time, polls show a majority of Greeks wanting to keep the euro, a symbol of their European aspirations.
One of many tragedies in the crisis is the failure of Greek leaders to confront their people with the truth: this is not a choice between austerity and leaving the euro.
The country's past excesses make austerity unavoidable, with or without a eurozone rescue loan, and within or outside of the euro.
Greeks will face even greater hardship if a new government in Athens tears up the rescue plan, and the economic collapse will worsen if a euro exit follows.
But such is Greeks' disgust with their own political establishment and with diktats from Berlin and Brussels that it now seems likely that on June 17 they will give even greater support to parties set on throwing out the loans-for-austerity programme agreed in March.
The eurozone must now brace itself for this outcome.
The currency area's leaders proclaim in unison that if Greece does not stick to its commitments, its neighbours will no longer bankroll its pensions, debt service and public sector salaries.
The eurozone has played chicken before and it tends to blink first.
It must not do so this time – nor can the IMF allow it.
The deals offered Greece have flaws but are still generous.
Should Athens reject the last one, its neighbours must let it default.
Only in the context of a euro-wide relaxation of budget targets – which has become a live possibility in remarkably little time – can a modification of Athens' progamme be envisaged.
Even that, however, is unlikely to gain strong political backing from Greeks, and may in any case come too late.
A default would not automatically push Greece out of the euro.
Identifying sovereign default with currency breakup, as leaders from Germany's Angela Merkel down did from early 2010, made breakup more rather than less likely.
But it is still true that that if Greeks do not want to jump, they will only leave the euro if they are pushed.
The push would be the European Central Bank's cutting its lifeline to Greek banks in the deposit run that Athens' default would trigger.
If the common currency disintegrates, it will be because monetary union and national responsibility for banks are an unsustainable combination.
Policymakers understand this now.
The rescue funds can be used for bank bail-outs; and the commission has issued belated plans for pan-European bank resolution rules and deposit insurance.
If the eurozone blanched at pushing Greece out the door – and despite the tough talk, many leaders will hesitate – the only way it could avoid it would be by saving Greece's banking system from collapse even the sovereign defaulted.
Europe may confront this choice even before a default comes to a head after June 17.
Greeks are already voting with their wallets: deposits, which stabilised earlier in the year, are shrinking alarmingly again.
It is hard to see how Berlin, in particular, can find the political space to let the eurozone support Greek banks.
That leaves the ugly alternative of a total Greek collapse and a risk of runs on other exposed countries' banks.