President Barack Obama picked a bad week to rediscover his interest in climate change.
His comments on Wednesday last week about wanting to cut greenhouse gas emissions followed a prediction from the International Energy Agency that, thanks to its shale reserves, the US would soon be the world's largest producer of oil and gas.
A country in the throes of a fossil fuel boom will not readily welcome a message of restraint.
Mr Obama conceded that if he tried to address the climate while ignoring jobs and growth, “I don't think anybody's going to go for that”.
That same IEA forecast, however, was also a reminder of why the president is right to be concerned.
Burning more than one-third of the world's fossil fuel resources, it said, would create a high risk of catastrophic damage from global warming.
The US needs to find a way to reconcile the short-term benefits of the shale boom in terms of economic growth and national security with the long-term necessity of global curbs on greenhouse gases.
The answer is to have a policy that works with the revolution, rather than trying to fight it.
First, policy should encourage the continued substitution of gas for coal in power generation.
That has already had a noticeable impact: US carbon dioxide emissions from energy use were at a 20-year low in the first quarter of 2012.
Those gains should be extended in the US and spread to other countries, especially China.
Second, regulation needs to keep pushing for increased energy efficiency, helping progress towards US self-sufficiency in oil as well as cutting emissions.
Third, the US should revive its stalled progress towards putting a price on carbon, through either a cap-and-trade system or a tax.
At a time when the country is badly in need of extra revenues, a levy on carbon or energy would be a much better solution than taxes on pay or profits.
Political resistance to that idea is strong.
Last week both the White House and Republicans in Congress ruled out a carbon tax.
Ultimately, though, some form of carbon price is likely to be inevitable and there is a need for politicians to be honest about that.
While there are significant uncertainties over how fast the planet might warm and what effects that might have, the threat is real.
President Obama's remarks were welcome after a long silence on the issue.
It is to be hoped that he will not leave it so long before he addresses it again.