France's Socialist party has scored its first victory of the 2012 presidential election campaign.
In a country where abstention has been on the rise, it is no small achievement to have convinced 2.5m people to come out on Sunday to cast a ballot in the first round of the party's presidential primary.
The unexpectedly high turnout points to a popular groundswell in favour of a credible alternative to the centre-right President Nicolas Sarkozy.
But by failing to choose decisively between the two leading moderate candidates, and allocating the role of kingmaker to a third on the anti-globalisation left, the poll has also revealed a crisis of identity that weakens the party's chances in next year's presidential election.
The stunning 17 per cent result from Arnaud Montebourg, the outsider who wants banks under government instruction, shows the still powerful hold over the French left of inward-looking, protectionist ideas.
Resolving these tensions while keeping the party unified will be the main challenge for next Sunday's final-round winner.
Mr Montebourg's camp is already suggesting that he will want public pledges in return for his support.
Both François Hollande, the frontrunner with 39 per cent of the vote, and Martine Aubry, with 31 per cent, will now fight to prove their left-wing credentials.
This is easier for Ms Aubry, who as employment minister helped to launch the 35 hour week a decade ago.
Mr Hollande will have to show that his brand of social democracy, close to that of Dominique Strauss Kahn, the disgraced favourite, is in step with traditional Socialist voters.
Yet both should resist the temptation to reverse the small steps towards modernisation that the party has tentatively taken.
It is to both candidates' credit that debt and deficit reduction is for the first time a Socialist priority.
Both should also take heart that 70 per cent of primary voters showed support for a moderate, reformist party.
It would be foolhardy to throw this away with promises that cannot be fulfilled, even if only to win the primary.
Mr Sarkozy is unpopular because of his maverick, divisive style, which has aliented centrist voters.
These may now look to a social democratic left as an alternative.
If either Socialist candidate shifts too far to the left, Mr Sarkozy could reclaim the centre ground.
To win, voters need to believe that candidates are credible.
However tempting short-term tactics are in pursuit of power, a solid mandate to govern remains essential.