President Barack Obama's new US defence posture – one that plans for “a smaller and leaner” military – is a significant moment in American policymaking.
The US has built up the most capable armed forces in world, with the Pentagon budget today larger than that of the next 10 countries combined.
Now, under severe budgetary pressure, the US is changing course.
The US will cut at least $487bn from Pentagon spending over the next decade. It will scale back the army and marine corps. It will place a much stronger emphasis on the strategic challenge posed by China.
The Obama administration is right to make these cuts. After all, the economic crisis is arguably the biggest threat to western security today.
Defence, like other budgets, must be pared back to boost fiscal credibility.
The US must also learn from the Iraq and Afghan conflicts, moving away from fighting long counterinsurgency campaigns, and thinking more smartly about how to use air power, special forces and drones.
What this change in US policy must also do is prompt Europe to think harder about its own capabilities.
For the past half century, Europe has assumed that the US will rush to its aid in any crisis.
That assumption no longer holds.
In Libya last year, the US warned that it expects European nations to take the lead when crises erupt in their own backyard.
Yet Europe's reaction to that warning – and to the US shift towards Asia – has thus far been disappointing.
Europe is failing on numerous fronts.
Most European nations are slashing defence spending. Many still have forces that are not deployable.
As Philip Hammond, Britain's defence secretary, argued last week: “Too many countries are failing to meet their financial responsibilities to Nato, and so failing to maintain appropriate and proportionate capabilities.”
The next few months will again test whether Europe can respond.
At their postponed summit later this year, Britain and France must demonstrate that bilateral tensions generated by the eurozone crisis will not undermine their defence co-operation.
But the biggest test will come at the Nato summit in Chicago in May.
There, Nato members must meet the challenge set by Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the alliance's secretary-general, to go for “smart defence”, pooling and sharing assets in order to preserve alliance capabilities.
The new Obama doctrine makes such pooling imperative.
Right now, Nato members appear to be nowhere near meeting the challenge.