The International Olympic Committee admits that it had qualms about naming high-calorie, fast- food brands such as McDonald's and Coca-Cola official sponsors to the games.
They and others have rightly asked how Big Macs promote the values expressed by the official motto – citius, altius, fortius, or faster, higher, stronger.
But banning these brands from sponsorship, as some critics want, is not the answer.
Obesity is a growing problem around the world.
In Britain – host to the 2012 games – almost two-thirds of adults and one-third of children are overweight.
The ubiquitous offer of fast food – with its addictive combination of fat, sugar and salt – is contributing to our growing girth.
But, like most things in life, there is nothing wrong with chips and fizzy drinks in moderation.
The blame lies instead in popular ignorance of good eating habits, while high prices can put healthier foods beyond the reach of some families.
These are challenges that are best addressed by comprehensive government programmes to educate children from an early age and support hard-pressed families.
Yet, while it is not the IOC's responsibility to solve the problem of global obesity, it could do more to contribute to the battle of the bulge.
It should start by being far more demanding of its sponsors in all sectors.
Competition is fierce among global brands to win the right to sport the Olympic rings on product advertising.
The committee should set higher hurdles for sponsors to demonstrate concrete commitment to behaviour underpinning Olympic values.
This could apply as much to Rio Tinto on the environment as Coca-Cola on healthier lifestyles.
Real people and real projects should be the foundation of any sponsorship bid.
For the high-calorie brands, the committee could also consider requiring ads using the Olympic logo to carry a health warning – much as for cigarettes – about the dangers of a regular diet of fast food.
Finally the criteria on which all sponsors are chosen should be published.
Public scrutiny is the best guarantee that money alone will not be the deciding factor.
It may be that such tough conditions leave the IOC with a smaller pool of potential funders.
The cost of the games has grown exponentially, even though the number of athletes has not changed much in a decade.
This raises the question of whether too much money is being spent in increasingly inefficient ways.
Bigger is not always better.
Sometimes it can even be damaging to your health.