At a time of high unemployment, the British government should do all it can to encourage businesses to create jobs. And yet, the labour market remains over-regulated. Excessive employment protection places a particularly heavy burden on small businesses, which would like to employ workers but are afraid of the consequences if things go wrong.
George Osborne, chancellor of the exchequer, has announced a new type of contract that should address some of these fears. Companies will be allowed to give new hires between £2,000 and £50,000 of shares that would be exempt from capital gains tax when sold. In return, the workers would renounce several rights, including the ability to claim unfair dismissal after two years in a job.
Mr Osborne's aim may be to make life easier for start-ups. True, these companies yearn for greater flexibility because their future is more uncertain. But the chancellor should not expect them to sign up en masse. Owners may be reluctant to dilute their equity by giving out shares to people who they may then want to fire.
Attracting employees to the new scheme will be even harder. Staff would renounce the right to statutory redundancy payments, as well as the ability to request flexible working or time to train. Women would have to give notice much earlier of a firm date for their return from maternity leave. Workers typically value these rights well above a few thousand pounds.
Even if they do not value their rights so highly, they may be reluctant to be paid in shares rather than cash. In the case of unlisted companies, it is unclear to whom they will be able to sell their shares. In many cases, the sole buyer will be the company's founder, who will have the incentive to talk the price down.
There is also a danger in linking employee share ownership with the surrender of employment rights. Share ownership has played a positive role in increasing workers' engagement with their companies. The risk is that employees would begin to associate this with greater vulnerability rather than more responsibility.
Mr Osborne is right to look at whether the UK's labour law needs to be updated. Industrial tribunals are expensive and the process should be reformed. But the question of how to liberalise the labour market should be kept separate from that of how to encourage employee share ownership. Neither objective will benefit from mixing the two.