This month Christian Paradis, Canada's industry minister, said in parliament: “We are pragmatic and welcome foreign investment”.
He has a funny way of showing it.
Shortly before midnight on Friday, Mr Paradis said he intended to block the $5.3bn takeover of Progress Energy Resources, a Canadian gas producer, by Petronas, Malaysia's national oil company.
The decision was misguided, threatening a deal that is good for Progress shareholders and for Canada's industry.
Worse than the ruling itself, though, was the arbitrary and opaque process from which it emerged.
Since BHP Billiton's $39bn takeover of Potash Corporation was blocked two years ago, international investors have been reassured that the Canadian government would intervene in acquisitions only very rarely.
Over the weekend, Mr Paradis has thrown that assumption into doubt.
The repercussions for a country that needs hundreds of billions of dollars to develop its oil and gas reserves could be deeply damaging.
The 1985 Industry Canada Act gives ministers the power to block a deal if it is not a “net benefit” to Canada based on a laundry list of possible criteria including corporate governance, state ownership, the effect on employment, exports and R&amp;D, and national security.
It is a bad law, allowing the government excessive discretion, but previous ministers have generally had the good sense not to use their powers.
Mr Paradis has broken with that precedent, and said that because of the confidentiality provisions of the act, he could not explain why he had done so.
Petronas has proved itself a responsible trading partner and investor, and the objections to it are difficult to understand.
If Mr Paradis is saying that investment from state-controlled companies is now unwelcome, he is shutting Canada off from the rising powers in global energy, from China, Russia, and the Middle East.
His ruling next month on Cnooc of China's $15bn bid for Calgary-based Nexen has taken on added significance.
The government's most urgent priority, though, is for prime minister Stephen Harper to deliver on his promise of setting out a clear framework for foreign takeovers that will allow investors to predict what deals will be allowed, and show ways to address concerns that might lead to an acquisition being blocked.
Until the policy is clarified, it will be understandable if investors believe their money is no longer welcome in Canada.