It may lack the drama of last year's shenanigans over America's sovereign debt ceiling.
But uncertainty over whether Congress will next month renew authorisation for America's Export-Import Bank reminds us that games of chicken are still popular on Capitol Hill.
At stake is America's response to the explosion of export credit by the big emerging economies, which is altering the global competitive playing field.
Last year China, India and Brazil provided $72bn in medium and long-term credit financing to their exporters – more than five times what the US mustered.
Germany was almost double.
Yet some Tea Party Republicans now threaten to withhold Exim's four-year reauthorisation altogether.
The bank, which operates without direct taxpayer support, also wants to raise its credit ceiling from $100bn to $140bn – again, a modest target relative to the US competitors. That, too, is in doubt.
In a perfect world, official credit support would not exist.
But today's is imperfect in two respects.
First other governments work more closely with their exporters than Washington, which disadvantages American companies, particularly small business exporters.
Barring the US sovereign guarantee, Exim provides no subsidies.
And it is self-financing.
Second, it redresses an important market failure: the absence of a commercial loan market for longer-term trade with riskier parts of the world.
While Exim only supported 2 per cent of total US exports last year, it funded a third of America's trade with Colombia and will be critical in helping the US compete with China's financial largesse in fast-growing Africa.
Eric Cantor, the Republican house majority leader and chief sceptic on Exim, has hinted he may be open to a compromise that would curtail Exim's credit ceiling and provide it with only a one-year renewal.
But this would be almost as bad.
By keeping Exim on a short political leash, it would set up a perennial Damoclean sword over the bank's future.
At a time when many businesses complain about regulatory uncertainty in the US, a one-year renewal for Exim would only add to it.
Most US business associations want Congress to pass this bill in full. Mr Cantor and his colleagues should heed their advice.