In Pittsburgh, leaders made a fine pledge to make the G20 ""the premier forum"" for co-ordinating policy for the global economy.
If they are sincere the first order of business is to share power within the Brettons Woods institutions.
The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund had outlived their two original mandates by the 1970s. The first — financing postwar reconstruction — had been successfully completed. The other — managing balanced current accounts and fixed exchange rates — failed with the Bretton Woods system.
They have since remade themselves as the world's most powerful development agencies.
Though they represent only a small part of financial flows to poor states, their imprimatur is the key that unlocks wider official aid and private capital markets.
The IMF's change is the most dramatic: its purpose is to assist with balance of payments needs, but its conditions on economic policies takes it deep into the territory of domestic politics.
For the gatekeeper role, and the often misguided conditions they impose to exercise it, the IMF and (less so) the Bank have earned resentment.
Lack of legitimacy is reinforced by their image as agents of malevolent western policy.
The chief cause of this crisis of legitimacy is the emerging world's pitifully small influence on how the institutions meant to serve it are run.
Its chief consequence is that they cannot do their job well.
Countries that can avoid relying on the IMF, do — in part by accumulating vast foreign exchange reserves to protect against financial crises.
Those who cannot too often see IMF assistance as a form of neocolonialist humiliation.
Restoring legitimacy to the Bretton Woods institutions requires a significant reallocation of country quotas (capital shares that determine voting weights).
This puts the onus squarely on EU states, which hold a third of the quotas, against just 17 per cent for the US.
The EU must consolidate its representation by unifying its policy — much as it has done on trade — and make do with fewer votes and directors.
If the US can do with one director, Europe can do with less than three.
As for emerging countries, they must pay up the capital to back additional votes.
China bristles at funding the IMF unless it gets more influence; the world must take it at its word.