底特律为美国养老金制度敲响警钟 Leader_Motown blues- Discourage future recklessness by making bondholders pay
Detroit's fiscal crisis poses the most significant test yet for America's laws on municipal bankruptcy.
The opening skirmishes bear witness to the tangle that the courts will have to unpick.
Already, the issues in dispute make for a daunting list.
Bill Schuette, Michigan's attorney-general, has said that pension benefits are sacrosanct under the state's constitution, while others reply that bankruptcies are governed by federal law.
Holders of so-called “general obligation” bonds argue that these are secured by a pledge to raise taxes and rank ahead of pensions;
Kevyn Orr, the city's emergency manager, says taxes can go no higher, and views the bonds as unsecured debt.
These disputes will have profound consequences for Detroit's creditors and for its resident taxpayers.
The latter group can walk away from the Motor City, which limits the burden it can be made to bear.
Indeed, Detroit must lower taxes and improve public services to attract people back.
That leaves pensioners and bondholders.
Given the scale of the crisis, both groups will inevitably face losses.
Clearly, the courts must follow the law.
It is to be hoped that the result will be fair, and instructive to others who may be flirting with ruin.
The union leaders and politicians who agreed workers' pensions bear a large measure of responsibility for Detroit's predicament.
Some employees have received generous awards that appear disproportionate to the contributions they have made.
There is evidence, too, that funds have been mismanaged.
Nonetheless, pensioners were entitled to rely on the commitments they received, and have been badly let down.
Less deserving are bondholders who, betting on a rescue by state or federal authorities, allowed Detroit to rack up excessive debt.
Their claims to seniority should be scrutinised carefully.
One lesson of the crisis is that regional governments must be denied the means of financial suicide.
Forcing bondholders to confront risks they willingly accepted will help discourage future recklessness.
Rating agencies warn that this will make it harder for municipalities to borrow in future.
That would be a salutary result.
But this is only part of the solution.
Detroit's pension obligations have proved just as destructive as its borrowings.
Yet, unlike bondholders, pensioners are ill-equipped to understand the risks inherent in these arrangements.
Detroit's troubles are another reminder that pension reform cannot come soon enough.