In theory, summits between two of the world's biggest economies and military giants – should have deep geo­strategic implications for the rest of the world.
In practice, this week's visit to China by Russia's president Vladimir Putin is likely to produce more diplomatic pomp than political progress.
The possibilities for fruitful collaboration between the two countries are obvious enough.
Moscow and Beijing's interests are aligned in a number of dimensions: their need to counterbalance the influence of the US; mutual support in their defiance of western public opinion on such topics as the bloodshed in Syria; and the symmetry of Russia's abundant energy resource with China's voracious appetite for them.
The draw may be bigger for Russia.
China's astounding rise makes it a greater threat, but also a bigger opportunity, to Russia than ever before.
The empty vastness of Siberia is vulnerable to any aggressive turn by Beijing.
And Moscow, always ambivalent about its European aspirations, cannot but notice that its western neighbours are sinking into stagnation – or worse – while China is where the growth is and is likely to remain for the foreseeable future.
If one is to saddle oneself to one horse, the eastern one has much going for it.
For all of China's ascendance, it too could benefit from a better relationship with Russia.
Its old doctrine of keeping a low global profile does not work in an era of globalisation, the source of China's wealth.
Increasing international involvements, a function of its trade, means that Beijing is badly in need of true allies.
So far, however, mutual interest has mostly lost out to mutual suspicion.
True, the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, of which the two states are founding members, could prove important.
But for now, differences delay even seemingly sensible commercial projects, such as a long-planned gas pipeline from Russia to China.
The truth is that the two have a long way to go to establish the trust needed for more committed cooperation.
The greatest commonality between the two two countries' regimes is their suspicion of others, manifested by more or less successfully stage-managed leadership transitions, an allergy against cross-border meddling, and intolerance of criticism – be it domestic (witness Russia's new law against protesters) or international.
These two formerly Marxist states know that objective interests dictate cooperation.
What they struggle with is the political culture to realise what is necessary.