Wolfgang Schäuble and George Osborne, finance ministers of Germany and the UK, call for “concerted international co-operation” to make corporate taxation more effective.
The sentiment cannot be faulted.
But they need to prove this is not all talk and no action.
The OECD is already engaged against “base erosion and profit shifting” and is tightening guidelines on transfer pricing.
This is how some multinational groups – especially those dealing in intangibles – can locate their profits in low-tax jurisdictions.
So the Anglo-German statement merely backs current OECD work.
That is better than opposing it, but it falls short of global leadership to right what is wrong with corporate taxation.
What is probably most on Mr Osborne's mind is not how much corporations pay in tax but domestic political perceptions that they pay too little – currently with the news that Starbucks only paid £9m in UK corporation tax since 1998.
Messrs Osborne and Schäuble want to “attract global companies to our countries, but also want global companies to pay those taxes”.
However, transfer pricing can be legally exploited to pay effective taxes far below statutory rates.
There are many things a committed chancellor or finance minister could pursue to change this.
The most ambitious would be the EU's hapless quest for a common consolidated corporate tax base (CCCTB).
This would have states tax a mutually agreed share of a multinational's profits, not the share the group decides to account for in each jurisdiction.
For all their fine words, the UK would find this hard to accept and even Germany is ambivalent.
That is no excuse for merely paying lip service to the cause.
The greater the role of intangibles in economic activity and trade, the less realistic it is to think tweaked transfer pricing rules can stop multinationals from making corporation tax liabilities evaporate – or rather condense on the backs of smaller companies with less ability to shift profits between tax jurisdictions.
Other, perhaps cruder, measures should be contemplated.
One is a hard limit on the share of turnover that is deductible for payments to foreign affiliates.
Calculating chargeable profits by formulas reflecting sales to customers in the taxing authority is another option, which could be particularly important for electronic goods sold from websites in tax havens.
Other possibilities exist.
They should be used – unilaterally if necessary – where the principle of no double taxation turns into a practice of double non-taxation.