The death of Kim Jong-il, North Korea's ruthless, cognac-loving dictator, should be a watershed.
For years the so-called Dear Leader has played a nuclear-armed game of Russian roulette with his southern neighbour and the international community, while starving and terrorising his own population.
Succession could be the chance to begin rebuilding not just the devastated economy, but stability in one of the world's most volatile regions.
But don't count on it.
Kim's 28-year-old heir, Kim Jong-eun, was virtually unknown before he was promoted to four-star general last year in a hastily-prepared succession.
Unlike his father, who had 14 years to prepare for power - during which time he was crucially put in charge of the military - Kim Jr is unlikely to have the same power base from which to lead a crumbling state where 25 per cent of the people are starving.
The risks are that the transfer of power will be fraught.
Mr Kim may want to prove his mettle with intensified aggression towards the south.
Given the North's nuclear arms programme, this could have devastating consequences.
Or he could become a pawn for competing interests, if those who were meant to be his mentors - his aunt and her husband – are not sufficiently influential.
North Korea's strict isolation from the outside world means that no one really knows the exact state of play.
Such uncertainty demands a measured response from the international community.
The US recently resumed bilateral talks with Pyongyang on its nuclear programme and is reported to have agreed new food aid in return for suspension of uranium enrichment.
These talks should not stop.
Pyongyang must be encouraged to stay at the negotiating table, even if succession slows things down.
But, more importantly, there is a need for international coordination if the situation spins out of control.
Beijing once rejected Washington's efforts to prepare a joint contingency plan should the regime collapse.
But efforts to open a dialogue must be renewed.
Seoul, Washington and Tokyo may have different strategic aims for the region to those of Beijing, which would not want reunification under a democratic South Korea.
But instability in a nuclear-armed country is in no one's interests.
The nightmare scenario is not the collapse of the Kim dynasty, but a clash of US and Chinese troops as they rush across the border to secure the country's nuclear facilities.
It should be everyone's priority to avoid such an outcome.