Four years into the crisis, a sense of cautious optimism has returned to the eurozone.
After a relative drought, capital is flowing back to peripheral governments, allowing their borrowing costs to tumble.
This change of sentiment is most visible in Ireland.
At the peak of the crisis, the yield on Dublin's 10-year bonds soared to 14 per cent.
This week, in the first auction since its rescue programme exit, the Irish government raised €3.75bn at a rate of just 3.54 per cent.
Spanish and Italian bonds are also back in demand – the countries' borrowing costs are down to 2010 levels.
The reversal reflects a fundamental shift in the way markets have come to perceive the eurozone.
Since Mario Draghi, European Central Bank president, vowed in 2012 to do “whatever it takes” to save the euro, the danger of a break-up of the single currency has all but disappeared.
Investors are also encouraged by the efforts made by some countries – most notably Spain and Ireland – to improve the external competitiveness of their economies.
In a world of high liquidity and low yields, the reasonable returns offered by the bonds of the eurozone periphery are attractive.
It would be wrong, however, to conclude that the eurozone is on an irreversible path to recovery.
Output is tentatively picking up but unemployment is stuck above 12 per cent.
The recession has triggered a dangerous process of disinflation.
In December, prices were a mere 0.8 per cent higher compared with a year earlier.
With producer prices falling by 1.2 per cent in the 12 months to November, there is little reason to believe inflation will accelerate soon.
Were the eurozone to fall into outright deflation, the costs could be huge: for example, it would become much harder for governments to pay back their debts.
Amid these economic difficulties, falling borrowing costs offer some respite.
Governments need to use a smaller proportion of their budgets to service the national debt.
But as market pressures recede, there is a risk that eurozone policy makers once again become complacent.
Already, over the past few months, the momentum behind building a more prosperous eurozone appears to have petered out.
Such bleak conclusions stem from what is happening in individual member states.
For all the talk of making their economies more competitive, France and Italy have made little progress towards unshackling their labour markets.
Public spending remains too high, forcing extortionary taxes on to businesses.
Even in Germany, the model pupil in the European class, the coalition agreement between the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats includes several backward steps, starting with a decision to lower the retirement age for some workers.
At the pan-European level, the drive to make the banking sector stronger has also slackened.
The absence of a credible common backstop to handle bank failures undermines the ultimate purpose of forming a banking union: breaking the lethal embrace between sovereigns and lenders.
There are even signs of complacency within the stronghold of the European Central Bank.
Inflation has dipped well below the ECB's 2 per cent target.
Yet the governing council is unlikely to take any expansionary move when it meets this week.
Mr Draghi should show more urgency, extending for example new liquidity to the banking sector via a fixed-rate longer-term refinancing operation.
As Europe prepares for a new parliament and a new commission this year, the risk of drift – particularly in Brussels – is high.
But securing a sustainable recovery requires a more active approach than merely watching the borrowing costs of peripheral governments fall.
In the absence of growth, even this benign trend could easily be reversed.