Citigroup may have been a poor investment over the past five years.
But the US bank has learnt one valuable thing from the financial crisis. This is that the boss of a large and complex financial institution should be answerable to its board and not vice versa.
It has not been revealed whether Citi's directors, led by new chairman, Mike O'Neill, demanded the replacement of Vikram Pandit this week.
Since the chief executive's abrupt departure, both sides have confined themselves to diplomatic generalities.
The board had ample reason to let him go, however.
Even taking into account the titanic mess Mr Pandit inherited when he assumed the top job in 2007, his achievements have been meagre.
True, he dismantled some of the financial timebombs ticking within the balance sheet.
But he also presided over a 90 per cent fall in Citi's share price – worse than any other US financial company bar AIG.
Meanwhile, his relations with regulators and investors have been fraught.
The authorities shot down the bank's $8bn share buyback earlier this year.
Mr Pandit's own $15m pay packet for last year was rejected by shareholders.
Governance itself is, of course, no guarantor of strong financial performance.
Mr Pandit's successor, Mike Corbat, may seem more convincing as a nuts-and-bolts commercial banker.
But there is no certainty that he will do better.
Nonetheless, the principle of tough board oversight is a sound one.
If the crisis did anything, it exposed the flaws in the “imperial CEO” model.
Many of the worst casualties, such as Royal Bank of Scotland and Citi itself, had their problems compounded by overpowerful bosses who danced too enthusiastically while the music played.
Arguably, the need for strong governance is just as great at a time of risky contraction, when bank boards must seek to square the interests of anxious regulators and politicians with those of investors.
While Citi seems to have learnt this lesson, not all of its rival US behemoths have.
Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan remain firmly under the thumb of their chairman cum chief executives, Lloyd Blankfein and Jamie Dimon respectively.
Although these banks are doing far better than Citi, investors should be wary about granting unfettered authority in this way.
Even able bosses can be blindsided by unforeseen losses, as Mr Dimon was earlier this year.
Mr Pandit may have struggled, but other bosses are capable of getting it wrong too.
Their employers would benefit from matching Citi's checks and balances.