The possible takeover of Invensys is a reminder that, for all the gloom surrounding British industry, many companies still sell high-value products overseas.
The number of large manufacturing exporters, however, is dwindling.
Whether or not the maker of industrial control and automation gear concludes a deal with France's Schneider Electric , it now seems likely to join a long list of prominent British companies that have been sold to foreign buyers.
Invensys shareholders will doubtless be celebrating.
Workers may overcome their natural misgivings if new markets are found for the products they make.
Other Britons may be less enthusiastic, seeing foreign ownership as a symptom – or perhaps a cause – of economic decline.
It is true that the exchequer can lose out in such deals, because of rules that make corporate tax payable in the country where a company legally resides regardless of where else it conducts business.
An international agreement that would link tax bases more closely to economic activity is at best a distant prospect.
Still, blocking cross-border takeovers would be of little help: British companies cut their tax bills by exploiting the same rules.
Another concern is that jobs will be diverted overseas.
But British companies, too, can hire abroad; only a minority of Invensys employees work in the UK.
The solution is not to keep businesses British, but to entice business to Britain – by developing a skilled, flexible workforce, an immigration regime that welcomes foreign talent, a sensible planning framework and decent infrastructure.
More broadly, it is sometimes suggested that the industrial base will weaken in the hands of owners and managers who pay little heed to British interests.
But shareholders in UK companies need not always have the national interest at heart, even if they happen to be British.
Companies, whether foreign or domestic, are regulated by laws and otherwise allowed to pursue their own interests.
The UK has tended to avoid deliberate efforts to reshape the economy using industrial policies or procurement rules that give hidden preference to local suppliers.
The Midlands automotive industry illustrates the benefits that cross-border takeovers can bring.
Once-British companies such as Jaguar, Land Rover and Mini have thrived under foreign ownership, revived by infusions of capital and knowhow even as their French peers – which have shunned foreign ownership – have struggled.