The judges of the Norwegian Nobel Committee have made unexpected decisions in the past when awarding the annual peace prize.
This year has proved no exception.
Most of the western media had assumed that the prize would go to Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani schoolgirl shot by the Taliban.
Instead, it went to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, a body that hopes to play a pivotal role in ridding Syria of its chemical stockpile.
On many levels, this is justified.
Since its foundation in 1997, the OPCW has established a solid record as a leading disarmament watchdog, assisting in the elimination of 80 per cent of chemical weapons across the globe. This includes the stockpiles of India, South Korea and almost all of Muammer Gaddafi's Libyan cache.
The prize also highlights the devastation such munitions wreak.
The Assad regime's use of chemical gas in Syria last August and Saddam Hussein's 1988 attack on the Iraqi town of Halabja amply demonstrate their horrific impact.
If the OPCW succeeds in disarming Mr Assad, this may oblige the half-a-dozen other nations (including Israel and Egypt) that have not signed the chemicals weapons convention to fall into line.
That said, there are reasons to question the timing and context of the Nobel committee's decision as well as its potential political ramifications.
First, the OPCW is just beginning its Syrian mission.
The disarmament of Mr Assad's chemical stocks will take at least nine months and is being conducted in highly adverse conditions.
Success cannot be assured.
The committee might have been wiser to let this operation run its course.
It made a similar mistake of making the wish father to the thought when crowning President Barack Obama early in his first term in the cause of Middle East peace.
Second, those who oppose President Assad worry that the west is preoccupied with the removal of chemical weapons rather than ending the wider Syrian civil war.
Persuading Mr Assad to surrender his chemical weapons is an important goal.
But the award of this prize may actually confer undeserved legitimacy on a brutal regime.
That risk was highlighted this week when John Kerry, the US secretary of state, clumsily observed that Mr Assad deserved “credit” for letting the OPCW into Syria to begin its work.
The award of the prize in many ways matches the aims of Alfred Nobel, the inventor of dynamite, who acquired a strong commitment to disarmament.
But while the removal of chemical weapons from Syria is vital, the award of this prestigious prize should not obscure the humanitarian catastrophe that has devastated Syria and forced the exodus of more than 2m innocent people.