Eighteen months after resigning in the aftermath of the Libor rate-rigging scandal, Bob Diamond is plotting his comeback.
This week, the former Barclays chief executive raised $325m from investors. He is now looking for an African financial services acquisition on which to spend the cash.
Yet if this fallen titan has not after all been condemned to the underworld, he appears at first sight to be heading for a relative backwater.
Banking services are poorly developed in Africa.
About 60 per cent of Kenyan adults are without a bank account, for example, compared to just 3 per cent in the UK.
Banks concentrate on serving parts of Africa that are home to most of its wealth but few of its people.
Much of the continent is too poor to sustain costly branches and infrastructure.
Dysfunctional institutions can also be a hindrance, although these have been improving lately.
Property registration costs are falling, and 70 per cent of African countries now have a national system of credit records.
But enforcing contracts remains difficult; legal fees amount to roughly half of the average claim.
The result is that millions must rely on cash alone, or fall back on informal arrangements for making payments and raising credit.
This stunts economic activity and adds to the precariousness of many people's livelihoods.
The pent-up demand for financial services is evident in the ingenious improvisations that Africans are devising to meet it.
In many places, mobile phone airtime balances have assumed the status of unofficial currency, after customers realised they could settle personal debts by transferring credit from one phone to another.
Safaricom, the Kenyan network operator, has formalised the service, in effect turning its army of phone card hawkers into a network of roving bank tellers.
It now collaborates with Commercial Bank of Africa to offer interest-bearing accounts and small loans.
New technology is bringing down costs just as an era of economic growth seems finally to be dawning on Africa.
Mr Diamond is not the only banker to spy opportunity in what is now the second-fastest growing region in the world.
Hedge funds and private equity companies, too, have been racing to do deals.
This is an occasion on which bankers' commercial ambitions coincide with the broader social good.
But policy makers should nonetheless be alert to possible dangers.
Recent history shows that a booming financial services industry can garner undue influence, even in advanced countries with robust institutions.
It would be a tragedy if Africa's rise were cut short by similar mistakes.
While governments bear primary responsibility for regulating financial conduct, international organisations such as the World Bank should issue vocal warnings if they have grounds for concern.
Banking is a maligned industry but an indispensable one.
It will be a mark of progress if foreign investment means that fewer Africans live beyond its reach.