In a farewell speech, Hillary Clinton said the world required a new architecture that should be more “Frank Gehry than formal Greek”.
It was an elegant description of the complexities facing the US at the start of Barack Obama's second term.
Many of the certainties that existed when Mrs Clinton was First Lady in the 1990s have vanished – not least the unipolarity of that brief era.
As secretary of state since 2009, it is to Mrs Clinton's credit that she helped restore America's standing following George W. Bush's mishandling of the unipolar moment.
Her star power was an important asset on the global stage – as was her tendency to show up at relatively obscure international gatherings.
But her diplomatic legacy is smaller than might have been expected.
It will be up to John Kerry to give a sharper clarity to America's strategic direction.
But the White House must first make clear Mr Kerry will have the scope to do so.
The former senator starts off with one clear advantage – no-one suspects him of lingering presidential ambitions.
Mrs Clinton, who shattered all records both in air miles and countries visited, was kept on a tight leash by Mr Obama's aides.
She was seen as the implementer of strategies devised in the White House.
She was also sidelined on Afghanistan.
It is time to loosen what is arguably the most White House-dominated foreign policy since the Nixon-Kissinger years.
Given the range of the challenges facing the US – from a recalcitrant Iran, to an ebullient but potentially fragile China - Washington needs more strategic thinking.
The White House is too political to accomplish that alone.
Mr Obama should signal clearly that Mr Kerry will have a much freer rein than his predecessor.
Second, Mr Kerry must get stuck into the crises in the Middle East and the Asia Pacific.
US foreign policy was on virtual auto-pilot for months because of the presidential election.
That drift was prolonged by Mrs Clinton's hopsitalisation last month.
The Syria crisis is getting worse.
As are tensions between China and Japan.
Vladimir Putin's Russia is not helping.
And there is the small matter of climate change – a topic close to Mr Kerry's heart.
There is a messy inbox of problems on which the world continues to need US leadership.
Between what Mrs Clinton described as the “headlines and the trend lines”, Mr Kerry will have little time to learn on the job.
He will deserve all the White House support he can get.