The banking sector hardly needs another scandal.
In the past two weeks, one big bank has been unable to give its customers their money; another was fingered for fiddling a benchmark rate for trillions of dollars in derivatives contracts; a third stands accused of preying on minorities.
Now HSBC is due to appear before a US Senate investigative committee, charged with dereliction of its duty to prevent money laundering.
What the London-based bank's US division has or has not done will only become clear in the hearing and once an expected settlement with US authorities is ready.
But HSBC is subject to investigations that the bank admits risk landing it with significant fines – up to $1bn, some analysts say.
If fines in the hundreds of millions become the norm – ING paid $619m to settle charges of sanctions violation;
Barclays is coughing up £290m for rigging Libor – we could soon be talking real money for banks.
With the world's biggest banks entangled in investigations, it is foolish to think that the industry, already scraping the bottom of the barrel of public goodwill, has put the worst behind it.
One estimate sees 12 banks linked to Libor probes facing $22bn in costs.
Executives cannot afford not to clean house – and be seen to be doing so – if they want to be able to focus on their core business rather than constant reputational firefighting.
To achieve that, a very good step would be to be clear about what their core business is.
Banking is fundamentally a utility: its social function, both on the retail side and in investment banking, is to channel capital from those with savings to spare or tolerance of risk to those with investments to fund or livelihoods to insure.
Quite apart from egregious wrongdoing such as Barclays' market fixing, or any alleged money laundering for which HSBC or others may be investigated, the scandals point to worrying inadequacies in the more humdrum operations of banks.
Creaking software blocking customer access to funds at Royal Bank of Scotland and the lack of proper back office controls to which HSBC is now owning up are products of inertia not malice.
That is no excuse.
More valuable than any transaction a bank carries out for a client is the financial plumbing that makes transactions possible.
The revelations suggest that a sector as indispensable to a modern society as the telecoms and road network does not adequately maintain its utility function.
If banks do not raise their game, legislators will force them to do so.