The shape-shifting at MF Global under its big-hitting ex-Goldman Sachs boss, Jon Corzine, has ended badly.
Having come in on a mission to turn round the US futures brokerage last year, his strategy – to turn it into a mini investment bank – has killed the patient.
Much of the blame must be down to poor execution.
Mr Corzine made the wrong bets at the wrong time.
But his approach – to ditch boring vanilla customer business and chase riskier but higher yielding activities – mirrors that taken by the industry before the financial crisis.
As such, MF's collapse may have wider lessons for regulators and investors alike.
To be fair, investors seem to have harboured doubts for some time.
MF's shares declined sharply even before doubts started to circulate about its capital.
True, the regulator obliged MF to raise more capital when it perceived the risks the firm was running with its holdings of sovereign debt.
However, this was insufficient to quell doubts when its credit rating was downgraded, simultaneously undermining both the brokerage and casino sides of the house.
In an ideal world, these losses should not matter to anyone other than those who took them.
There is nothing wrong with people taking risks so long as they and they alone bear the consequences.
Much effort has been put in since the failure of Lehman Brothers to try to ensure that this is the case when bankruptcies occur in the financial sector.
In many ways, MF's failure is a good test case for these new procedures.
One certainly would not want the first case to be a second Lehman, especially at such a sensitive time with markets so jittery about the crisis in the eurozone.
The task now is to wind down MF in as swift and orderly a fashion as possible with the minimum of loss to clients.
This should be possible as it is neither large – it had $41bn in assets – nor unduly complex.
Most of its brokerage business went through central counterparties, so providing additional safeguards for customers.
The case reinforces the importance of the rules concerning segregating client money.
It is quite extraordinary that MF appears unable to account for several hundred million dollars of clients' funds that should be in segregated accounts.
Severe penalties should be imposed if this is not resolved.
Such a basic violation of the rules of futures brokerage also raises questions about the supervisors, and whether they are up to the job.
It is not enough to ordain the segregation of client cash. Someone needs to see that it is done.
No financial system can operate without periodic failures.
These can be healthy if they are relatively infrequent and competently resolved.
It is akin to allowing occasional small forest fires to clear the brushwood, rather than extinguishing them and risking a huge conflagration.
The purpose of resolution is to ensure that risky strategies fail before they become too big to fail.
If MF's case proves the system can deliver this, some good may be salvaged from its demise.