Nearly two years after Europe's sovereign debt crisis erupted, market and political uncertainty are worse than ever.
Fear about states' ability to service their debts is now set on a self-reinforcing course which, absent a radical shift in market psychology, could hit the very core of the eurozone.
What is needed is nothing short of moving voters and markets from a mood of self-fulfilling pessimism to one of confidence in the future.
So far leaders have failed at this task.
It is better to take time to agree a policy that will work than to rush through an ill-considered response.
Leaders should bear in mind at Wednesday's scheduled summit that Europe cannot afford another half-baked solution dressed up as the real thing.
So far the signs are mixed at best.
Most promising is evidence that politicians accept that the rescue plan for Athens must capture more of the market discount priced into Greek sovereign bonds.
A supposed 21 per cent net present value haircut accepted by private banks was never sufficient – and did not even amount to a loss compared to the bonds' market value.
The 60 per cent cut now being mooted comes closer to realising current market discounts.
As for new bank capital, governments have settled on a reasonable enough number.
But they continue to shield bank bondholders from helping to fill the capital hole caused by banks' bad investments.
Worse, governments are still dithering over how to stop the runs on sovereign debt markets that are causing banks' woes and will not be fixed by any plausible recapitalisation exercise.
On the biggest challenge of all – preventing a refinancing crisis for a large eurozone sovereign – governments have learned little.
From the start, market contagion spread in step with each declaration that obfuscated more than it clarified.
Suspicion naturally grew that the eurozone was unwilling to put up money to match its rhetoric.
So what is the currency bloc's plan?
A complex insurance structure designed to minimise the amount of funds put into the troubled debt markets.
It is far from clear that this approach is credible enough to win over investors.
So badly have eurozone governments undermined their own credibility that it is scarcely believable that they would honour the insurance policies they want to issue.
By now, the only way to shock markets back to confidence in the eurozone's ability to stem liquidity crises is by putting money – not another promise of money – on the table.
The straightforward way is to use the European financial stability facility to the hilt: the EFSF should raise money fast and on a large scale to have a war chest ready to support the prices of new bonds issued by any sovereign that is solvent, at the lowest rates the EFSF can afford to charge.
The eurozone should expand the EFSF's firepower by agreeing to let it borrow more than the current €440bn ceiling without bigger guarantees – hence without another ratification round.
This may or may not take the EFSF's rating down a notch.
So be it: that is a price worth paying for a visible, funded liquidity backstop, that will lower sovereign credit costs, restore economic confidence and mitigate bank solvency concerns.
The eurozone has the money for this: the currency bloc is in external balance.
But marshalling additional resources surely does not hurt.
Asian surplus states should be encouraged to help – but by buying EFSF bonds, not by joining an opaque special purpose vehicle.
The European Central Bank can help.
In return for being rid of its thankless bond-buying programme it can offer to repo any EFSF bond at par, securing a liquid market.
The sums needed are large.
But they are dwarfed by the cost of doing too little.
Eurozone leaders have vowed to safeguard their currency.
They must now will the means and not only the end.