Eurozone leaders have vowed to do “whatever it takes” to ensure the euro area's stability.
The European Central Bank's decision to buy Italian and Spanish bonds makes it the only eurozone institution to match such slogans with actions.
The rest of the eurozone governing system – its elected heads of governments above all – must now show equal determination in order to solve this existential crisis.
The ECB was right to reactivate its Securities Markets Programme, through which it has earlier made outright purchases of Greek, Irish, and Portuguese government bonds.
The central bank justifies its decision not in terms of keeping yields down but of safeguarding the efficacy of the monetary transmission mechanism.
This is understandable.
Unlike monetary debt financing, there is no legal shadow over the ECB's authority to make monetary policy work.
It is surely in the public interest that it should try to do so: it is hard to control credit conditions through banks that are squeezed by collapsing market values for their core assets.
But the main purpose – and what markets have been baying for – is to pre-empt a bond buyers' strike which would send Madrid's and Rome's borrowing costs spiralling out of control.
This should be the overriding priority of all eurozone policymakers.
Leaving the ECB to address it alone is politically and economically too risky.
The economic risk is that it is uncertain how much ECB bond-buying will achieve.
Its immediate effect has been large: on Monday, Italian and Spanish yields fell by almost a full percentage point, respectively.
But whether this will endure depends on the scale of the ECB's continued forays into bond markets.
The SMP has not stopped Irish and Portuguese yields from hovering around the 10 per cent mark.
A timid intervention may undermine market sentiment more than no intervention at all.
ECB bond-buying is also politically risky, especially if carried out on a big enough scale to work.
It rankles those, in Germany and like-minded societies, who see it as tantamount to monetising government debt.
Should it come to the worst, any significant ECB losses on the SMP would have to be met through a politically toxic recapitalisation.
The irony is that this risk is made greater by Germany's resistance to more firepower for the European Financial Stability Facility.
This is what has forced the ECB to step into the breach.
Jean-Claude Trichet, ECB president, is therefore justified in his persistent calls for a fiscal backstop.
He may be hoping that the SMP is just a bridge until the EFSF obtains the agreed authorisations from national governments to buy bonds.
That would certainly be the best solution – but the ECB cannot secure this outcome if recalcitrant states refuse to give the EFSF the powers that have been agreed, let alone the greater ones that it actually needs.
Government should make haste to enhance the EFSF.
In return, beneficiary states must continue to improve their public finances.
This requires both credible deficit cutting and a strategy for growth.
In this regard, Spain has more to show for than Italy.
Madrid's deficit programme is largely on track – some tax measures are being moved up in response to the last rise in yields – and the government has taken aim at rules strangling the labour market.
In Italy, on the other hand, Silvio Berlusconi's discredited premiership has distracted attention from pressing matters.
Only at the last moment did his government offer measures to calm the markets.
On the surface, some look well-chosen – such as prying open the professions and frontloading deficit cuts – but Rome has lost much of the credibility it built up in the 1990s.
Markets will not trust Mr Berlusconi to enact his commitments until they see him do so.
Although Italy and Spain are not in eurozone rescue programmes, terms of policy are increasingly being dictated to them.
That is the order of things to come: the eurozone's solidarity will be purchased at the price of more collective control over national economic policy.
That makes it all the more important for the new economic governance regime to control the right things: growth must be given as much attention as fiscal rectitude, private balances as much as public ones, and sanctions must be automatic, not depend on the say-so of the big nations.
The old stability and growth pact lacked all of these elements. That is why it failed.
If Europe's debt and growth crisis is not solved, European integration itself is at risk.
But to solve it, voters must be convinced to support the necessary measures.
That is something only politicians, not central bankers can do.