In July, the eurozone adopted “private sector involvement” – a debt swap with haircuts for private bondholders – as the way to squeeze through the shrinking overlap between the economically sensible and the politically acceptable in the second rescue of Greek public finances.
A deadline for non-binding commitments closed last Friday.
The question now is whether the exchange will happen before it is superseded by events.
The Greek government has kept mum about how many bondholders actually signed up.
Out of all the bonds eligible for the exchange – about €150bn-worth, maturing up to 2020 – Athens has insisted on 90 per cent participation in order to go ahead.
It may have achieved 70-75 per cent and it has in its power to strong-arm Hellenic Postbank and ATEBank, two state-controlled Greek banks, into accepting the exchange.
This may get Athens close enough to 90 per cent to let the exchange proceed.
What then?
Analysts have estimated the net present value of the haircut – debt relief for Greece, a loss to put on the ledgers for investors – at 21 per cent.
The face value of Greek debt will fall by less, about 10 per cent.
On either measure, the savings are tiny compared with the Greek state's roughly €350bn of liabilities outstanding.
This raises two questions.
Why aim for a timid haircut that gives bondholders such good terms compared with market discounts that are much bigger than 21 per cent?
And why was it not easier to make investors buy into what seems like an attractive deal?
The answer to the first question, is that despite the tough talk on PSI, which has rattled markets to the point of threatening Italy's debt financing, the eurozone is not in fact willing to let private investors take much of a hit.
This contradiction is a reason why no package for Greece has lasted longer than a few months.
As for the last question, market rates set by marginal trades no longer provide a useful guide to investor thinking.
Many bondholders would never sell into the market, as this would force them to crystallise losses.
Neither Greece nor its eurozone partners want to use the tools available to squeeze them: reform Greek law to impose collective action clauses on bonds or promise to force much tougher restructuring on holdout investors.
A more ambitious Brady-type debt swap with guarantees is necessary.
But this is only doable if preparations are made to protect the eurozone banking system from the impact that honesty about its losses would entail.