Will he — Tony Blair, that is — seek the position of president of the European Council or won't he?
And will they — his former peers in the Council, the 27 EU heads of government that make up this select electorate — want him?
With the all-but-ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, these questions have burst out of the Euro-parlour game into the public square.
The answer is not as clear as it might seem at first glance.
In the first place, there is no real consensus — yet — about what the job actually entails, yet everyone knows that it will be defined by the first person who holds it.
Is it a position that requires the star quality that — as David Miliband, the UK foreign secretary, put it in ostensibly arguing for Mr Blair — stops traffic in Washington and Beijing, Moscow and New Delhi?
It is far from clear EU leaders, in their vanity, would allow themselves to be eclipsed by that kind of star.
They may well prefer someone who patiently attends to the (27) agenda(s) and works to build the sort of messy consensus that keeps the union staggering forward.
The impenetrable Lisbon treaty is verbose on this but uncharacteristically brief on the role of representation.
But, if it is global recognition the EU wants, Mr Blair can certainly oblige.
In his decade at the top of British and international politics, he was, indeed, a star, albeit in a rather dim firmament.
It is a seductive argument that with his mix of access and charm, and his I'm-a-straight-sort-of-guy way of doing business, he would enable the EU to, at last, punch its weight on the international stage.
Europe does need a more persuasive voice, otherwise it risks fading into geopolitical irrelevance in a world parcelled up between a G2 of the US and China.
And, even though the other big job of foreign policy chief created by the Lisbon treaty could turn out to be more important, it is far from obvious there are good alternatives to Mr Blair as president of the Council.
The objections to Mr Blair are not — as the opposition Conservative party has it — that his appointment would be seen as an affront to British sensibilities.
William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary and former Tory leader, said naming him as president would be seen as a ""hostile"" act.
He sounds as though he is confusing Brussels with the Kremlin, circa 1980.
David Cameron adopted a more even — and gently mocking — tone in saying a future Tory government could work with Il Presidente.
No, Mr Blair is the wrong man for this job for different reasons.
The folly of Iraq, a war of choice sold on a false prospectus, looms large.
Quite aside from the fact that this unprovoked invasion broke Iraq as a state and as a society, giving a fillip to jihadism across the wider Middle East, Mr Blair, subordinating the UK to the incompetent adventurism of the Bush administration, did not try to reach agreement with his European partners and contributed mightily to the union's division.
But alongside the debris piled up by the Iraq catastrophe, Mr Blair blew a historic opportunity to embed Britain in Europe and change the British conversation about Europe.
At a time when Britons of his generation have never felt more familiar with and at ease with their European neighbours, and when so many EU arguments were going the British way, Mr Blair all but abandoned any attempt to win domestic opinion to even the pragmatic case for pooling a small portion of British sovereignty, instead capitulating to the Eurosceptic and jingoist media.
On leaving office he blamed the press for forcing Britain's leaders into a false dilemma of being for or against Europe: ""it's either isolation or treason"".
But after his landslide 10 years earlier he could have crossed the English Channel on foot.
Leaders are supposed to lead.
The star power his supporters attribute to Mr Blair, moreover, ignores the fact that the EU is more about chemistry than cosmology.
It requires coalition-building skills of a high order, and a real understanding of the intra-EU tensions between big and small states, between north and south, and increasingly, east and west, and of the prickliness of the big three, France, Germany and the UK.
Mr Blair may instinctively incline too much to the power of the big states to unite the union.
The Blair claim to this job cannot be lightly dismissed, but nor is it self-evident he is the man to invest the EU with glittering new credibility with a sprinkle of pixie dust.
This is not about redeeming his reputation. It is about promoting Europe's cause, at home and abroad.
On those counts, he is deeply unconvincing.