The outcome of Iran's parliamentary elections, which took place last friday, has never been in doubt.
The victors will doubtless be drawn from among the constellation of officially-approved fundamentalists.
However this is not to say that the contest will be altogether without meaning.
Elections in Iran have always been a higher-stakes game that the ritual and rigged plebiscites favoured by many Arab autocracies.
This is, moreover, the first test of public opinion since the presidential contest of 2009 spilled on to the streets of Tehran, leading to the opposition being viciously suppressed by the clerical establishment.
It also comes at a time of severe strains at home, with the ruling political class riven by factionalism on a scale not seen since shortly after the Islamic revolution in 1979.
Meanwhile, the economy, which has been dislocated by populist measures, faces not only roaring inflation but the threat of international sanctions, including an embargo of the all-important oil sector.
In such circumstances, the clerical establishment under Ayatollah Khamenei has been pinning its hopes on a high turnout to establish legitimacy.
But the decision to exclude candidates supportive of the reformist movement, as well as many loyal to the president, Mahmoud Ahmadi-Nejad, risks resulting in a near boycott in Iran's major cities.
Far from shoring up the regime, the poll threatens to telegraph its weakness.
Following the events of the Arab spring, the Iranian leadership will be nervous about maintaining internal control and thwarting foreign plots.
Ayatollah Khamenei has made this into a patriotic election, seeking to rally the public with talk of foreign bullying and arrogance – especially over the nuclear programme which enjoys popular support.
But that does not mean the regime is altogether deaf to the need to shore up its international position.
The signs are unmistakable that the tide is turning against Iran.
It is likely to lose its allies in Syria.
Tehran is also under unprecedented pressure from abroad.
The west must keep up this pressure to bring the regime to the negotiating table.
Only when Iran is willing to talk will it be possible to thrash out a solution to the nuclear problem that the west and Iran's neighbours can live with.
But while the clock is running down, there remains time to avert a war.
Most observers feel that Tehran still needs some time to get itself into the position to produce a functioning weapon, were it to decide to do so.
Of course, it remains unclear whether Tehran's recent offer to negotiate is genuine and could bear fruit.
But to attack now, when so many cracks are appearing in the edifice, would be to play into the regime's hands.