This week, Barack Obama will welcome Xi Jinping to Rancho Mirage in California.
For the first time in a century, one could debate whether the US or the Chinese president is the more important of the two.
Mr Obama has less than four years left to serve while Mr Xi is at the start of an expected 10-year term.
By the time he steps down, China may be the world's biggest economy.
The US and China disagree on a range of issues, from Iran and North Korea to cyber warfare and the extent of the US presence in the Pacific.
Pessimists see a real danger of war as the two powers butt up against each other's interests.
The US pivot, seen by Washington as a necessary “hedge” against China, looks like raw containment to Beijing.
As He Yafei, a senior Chinese diplomat, wrote recently, there is a severe “trust deficit” between the two sides.
Yet things are not as bad as the pessimists would have it.
Outside the military realm, the two have built a formidably broad-ranging dialogue.
That at least provides an opportunity to build the trust that is lacking and to move gradually to what amounts to a new world order.
Mr Obama and Mr Xi should begin by trying to build a personal bond.
To western eyes, the charismatic Mr Xi looks to be an easier person to deal with than his predecessor, the wooden and hard-to-read Hu Jintao.
More promisingly still, there are faint signs Mr Xi has a better understanding of the responsibility that comes along with power.
He has been a little more willing to bring Pyongyang to heel and his government has made more promising noises on climate change.
The US, where it is plausible, should acknowledge Chinese progress, particularly on the currency, which Beijing has allowed to appreciate significantly against the dollar.
In other areas, it is harder for Washington to give ground.
It cannot, for instance, remain silent in the face of blatant human rights abuses, nor can it abandon its allies in the Pacific.
One area where progress could be made is in cyber espionage, precisely because friction is running so high.
Here an agreement to hold regular high-level talks over the hacking issue is mildly encouraging.
The two could start with a “no-sabotage deal”, for example by pledging to stop any attacks on each other's National Grid.
As trust-building measures go, it's a small step. But it would be a start.