The nations of the EU must stop their collective decline as a military power.
For years, this plea has been sounded by Nato chiefs and senior US officials who complain that European governments are slashing defence budgets far too fast in response to the economic crisis.
The recent intervention in Ukraine by Vladimir Putin, the Russian prime minister, has now given those fears even greater resonance.
Russia's effective annexation of Crimea has all the makings of a grand strategic moment for the EU, whose governments need to reflect on whether they can continue cutting military capabilities without fearing the consequences.
There are two reasons why European defence has become such a fraught subject in recent years.
First, while the US remains the senior partner in the western alliance, it is increasingly focusing on the strategic challenge from a resurgent China.
Japan and South Korea look to Washington to boost security guarantees against Chinese might.
With Pentagon spending also being squeezed, this means the US is stretched.
Second, the Europeans have responded feebly to requests from Washington to spend more on defence.
At a summit last year, EU leaders stated blandly that “defence matters”.
But total EU military spending has fallen from €200bn in 2008 to €170bn today.
Enhanced military co-operation between some governments, most notably Britain and France, has mitigated the effect of this – but only marginally.
Russia's intervention in Crimea should bring an end to the drift in European security policy.
Clearly, neither the US nor the Europeans are going to respond militarily to Russian action in Ukraine.
But one of the big risks of this crisis is that it will end up deepening perceptions in the Kremlin that EU members remain ambivalent towards Russian aggression on their eastern border.
To stop that happening, European governments should think harder about protecting defence spending.
This is particularly important in Britain, one of the two big military powers in Europe, which has already slashed defence expenditure by 8 per cent in real terms since 2010.
The next UK government, no matter what its complexion, will almost certainly make further cuts, slashing the regular army even further after 2015.
Political leaders should state before next year's election that this is not how they will proceed.
Governments also need to think harder about their military doctrine.
This especially applies to Germany, which remains a very reluctant security player, as it showed over the Libya conflict.
In a recent speech, President Joachim Gauck, Germany's head of state, said that his country “should make a more substantial contribution” on international security issues.
Those words must now trigger a deeper debate, moving Germany to a more assertive and responsible foreign policy, one that better matches its economic weight.
Nato members are treaty-bound to respond should Russian aggression extend beyond Ukraine towards, say, the three Baltic states.
If that were to happen, the US would come to the rescue of its Nato allies under the alliance's Article 5.
But European leaders should make clear their total commitment to the solidity of the alliance.
This means demonstrating to America that the US contribution to Nato is not taken for granted.
In 2011, Robert Gates, the former US defence secretary, warned Europeans of the risk of slashing their military capabilities.
He said there would be a dwindling appetite in the US “to expend increasingly precious funds on behalf of nations that are apparently unwilling to . . . be serious and capable partners in their own defence”.
After Crimea, this is a warning the Europeans cannot afford to ignore.