Austerity is not the only thing being forced on eurozone governments by the sovereign debt crisis. They must also shore up confidence in the banking sector.
In the wake of the Greek crisis, the share prices of banks have fallen while the cost of insuring their debt has doubled over the past month.
The market's aversion to banking risk is perhaps indiscriminate.
Many European banks are in reasonable health.
But there are areas of weakness — especially in Spain and Germany.
And these must be addressed if they are not to taint the wider market.
Europe has not been noticeably slower than the US in pursuing banking reform.
But in one sphere most of Europe has lagged behind: that of crystallising losses and recapitalising weaker institutions.
This reflects the fact that the eurozone's banks enjoyed a softer landing than their US and UK counterparts after the global crisis.
They owned relatively fewer toxic assets, and were hence forced to take fewer write-downs.
This in turn meant that they recapitalised less.
The US has also been much more ruthless about shuttering weak financial institutions.
In Europe, the walking wounded have been allowed to limp on.
The tier one ratios of eurozone banks stand at about 9 per cent, according to the latest International Monetary Fund financial stability report, as against more than 11 per cent for the US and UK.
The Greek crisis — and the possibility of big sovereign debt losses being concealed in the system — has changed the weather.
Investor forbearance has turned into dark suspicion.
The fear is that problems have not been solved but simply swept under the carpet.
Unlisted, and hence less transparent, institutions are regarded with particular suspicion.
Germany must stop dithering over what to do about its Landesbanks — regional institutions that had an unusual predilection for risky assets.
And Spain must shore up its wobbly cajas — again regional institutions overexposed to an overheated property market.
More generally, European governments need to restore confidence in the soundness of bank balance sheets.
To this end they should now conduct stress tests of systemic institutions and publish the results.
It was the willingness of the US to do this that helped to restore confidence in its banks.
It is pointless for Europe to avoid the concerns about its banks.
It should resolve the uncertainty and, if necessary, force the banks to raise the capital that they require.