When crowds tore down the Berlin Wall 20 years ago today few participants in that joyously chaotic celebration of freedom foresaw the consequences.
But by seizing the moment they made history.
Like the concrete masonry, the 1945 division of Germany and of Europe was removed from the map. The way opened to the end of the cold war, the advance of democracy and free markets into eastern Europe, and the enlargement of the European Union.
Two decades later, it is clear that the world won huge political and economic benefits from the collapse of communism.
Despite today's difficulties with global terrorism, the Middle East and economic crisis, the end of superpower rivalry has made the world safer, freer and richer.
Difficulties remain with completing the economic integration of Germany and of eastern Europe, where living standards remain below western levels.
The economic crisis will delay efforts to close the gap. But with hard work it can be done.
East European states have worked wonders in establishing democracy where it had barely existed.
But they must do more to deal with the baleful legacy of communism, build trust in public institutions and fight corruption.
Meanwhile, there are signs the division between Moscow and the west that once ran through Germany, is re-emerging further east, in Russia's borderlands.
Besides the successes of 1989 and its aftermath sits a failure by the west to engage Russia properly, reform Nato and develop new security structures.
Perhaps, given Moscow's deep-seated love of empire, the effort would have been futile.
But it should have been attempted.
Now, Europe may be blighted by a dangerous new grey zone between the EU/Nato border and Russia.
But these challenges must be put in perspective.
The end of the Soviet empire — and later of the Soviet Union — was not followed by nuclear disaster.
The Red Army retreated painlessly from central Europe.
The ex-communist states did not, with the big exceptions of Yugoslavia and Georgia, collapse into civil war.
For this Mikhail Gorbachev, Helmut Kohl, George H.W.Bush and others deserve credit.
So do the brave east European campaigners and reformers who, wittingly or unwittingly, drove the revolution forward, Poland's Solidarity movement, Hungary's reform communists, the Czechoslovak dissidents and the young people who destroyed the Berlin Wall.
All merit their place in history.