The great thing about air pollution is that you can see it.
After years of ignoring the thickening smog around them – or dismissing it as an inevitable consequence of rapid growth – more and more Chinese are clearly worried.
Last year's “airpocalypse” was a turning point.
PM2.5 fine particulates reached levels 70 times those considered safe in the west.
Dangerously high levels of smog returned last month.
In recent years there have been public protests against chemical factories and toxic waste spills throughout China.
Even parts of the state media have taken to reprimanding local officials for failing to meet their own clean-up targets.
There are tentative signs too that President Xi Jinping's administration is more serious about the problem.
It appears to have concluded that pollution is a potential cause of mass discontent.
Decreasing pollution also fits with its policy of improving the quality of growth by rebalancing the economy towards consumption.
Mr Xi has let it be known that local officials will from now on be judged not purely by economic growth but also by improvements to the environment.
If this is implemented, it marks progress.
The government is also demanding real-time data from 15,000 heavily polluting factories.
In his first year in office, Mr Xi has consolidated power and driven through an anti-corruption campaign with great ruthlessness.
He could plausibly do the same against pollution.
Yet there are serious limits to what can be achieved.
First, the use of coal, the biggest cause of bad air quality, will almost certainly increase, not diminish.
True, China is planning 28 nuclear power stations to add to the 20 already in operation.
Moreover, it intends to step up use of gas and hydroelectric power, itself not exactly environmentally cost-free.
Even so, China's main coal body is projecting a near-40 per cent jump in use by 2020.
Second, China may merely displace pollution, not tackle it (just as the developed world has outsourced much of its pollution to China).
The government has called for polluters to move to the west of the country, hardly a sustainable solution.
Much of the air pollution that drifts across Beijing comes from Hebei province, which has now started to close outmoded steel mills.
The result is far worse pollution in Shanghai as mills in nearby Jiangsu province take up the slack.
Third, smog is only the most visible environmental catastrophe.
Soil pollution may be worse still – and more intractable.
Many rivers are ecological disasters.
Biodiversity has already fallen, probably never to recover.
China has long talked about cleaning up the environment.
If it is now serious, there are some things it can do.
Top of the list comes enforcement of existing rules.
If Mr Xi can clamp down on corrupt “tigers” and “flies”, he can surely do the same with “dirty rats”.
As well as making it illegal to pollute, he can also make it more expensive.
A carbon tax would be a bold move, one even western governments have struggled to implement. Here China's centralised, command economy could be an advantage.
In the long run, success will depend on China's ability to improve the efficiency of its economic model.
Improvements so far have been easily outpaced by an economy that has doubled in size every seven years.
China needs rapidly to learn how to create more output from fewer inputs.
Energy saving should become a priority.
Of course, there is likely to be a cost.
It is hard to see how China can clean up its environment without significant disruption to employment in polluting industries.
The danger is that the leadership of the Communist party will conclude that it needs fast growth more than it needs clean air, clean soil and clean rivers.
That would be a mistake.