Self-criticism, long de rigueur in religion, philosophy and (in a less voluntary fashion) totalitarian politics, came late to economics.
Better late than never: the International Monetary Fund has published an evaluation of its performance before the financial crisis.
It should be read and replicated by economists everywhere.
The IMF's Independent Evaluation Office – set up 10 years ago after the Asian financial crisis – gives a forthright account of the Fund's pre-crisis misses.
And misses there were.
The IMF's publications noted many of the risks that later nearly exploded the global financial system, but ignored their scale and how interconnected they were.
The reports' optimistic headline messages undermined what should have been presented as causes for alarm.
The reasons were partly institutional.
Within the Fund, financial experts and macroeconomists communicated badly.
The organisation did not link up findings in countries where similar risks were evolving – especially the epicentres of the housing boom – nor did it fully consider the vulnerability of one country to risks in others.
But there were intellectual failings too.
Many IMF analysts were trapped inside the same paradigm as most other economists: models largely ignoring the financial sector and a mindset buying the conventional wisdom of a “great moderation” where monetary policy had been perfected and financial innovation had tamed volatility.
Dissenting voices – which did exist – were at best ignored, at worst encouraged to fall silent.
Strikingly, these indictments could just as well be levelled against virtually every other other economics establishment – notably most central banks, and much of the academic economics profession.
Economists may not admit it, but they are all too human, and prone to the usual human frailties of groupthink and an aggrandised assessment of their own abilities.
What does this mean for policy choices to protect against a new crisis?
Better economic models – and a more critical attitude even to the best models we have, including listening to voices beyond the economic priesthood – may reduce our blindness to emerging risks.
But some crises may be inherently unpredictable.
Being aware of what we do not know should encourage a policy of taking precautions even if we see no danger.
The IMF's quick reaction to the crisis made up for much of its initial neglect.
By scrutinising what it got wrong, it is again leading the way.
Others should now follow.