It was a spirited president of the European Central Bank who gave his last but one press conference on Thursday.
Jean-Claude Trichet hit some valedictory notes defending the ECB's record on inflation and its handling of the crisis.
Nevertheless, Mr Trichet and his colleagues compounded a mistake by leaving in place rates they wrongly raised in April and July.
In reporting downgraded forecasts for growth and inflation, Mr Trichet joined the chorus of those observing the world economy powering down.
On the same day, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development issued its own sharply reduced forecasts.
After saying growth prospects warranted interest rises in the spring, the OECD now expects stagnation across the industrialised world for the rest of the year – and a contraction in Germany.
Similar pessimism made the Bank of England's monetary policy committee hold its policy rate unchanged at the record-low level of 0.5 per cent.
That makes it all the stranger for the ECB not to reverse its earlier rate rises.
The risks to growth are now on the downside and the upward risks of inflation have abated.
On most measures, the quantity of money and credit in the eurozone is stagnant or shrinking in real terms.
When should interest rates be cut, if not now?
Particularly disappointing is the ECB's decision not to lower the rate paid on funds deposited with the central bank.
This rate is usually moved in lockstep with the main refinancing rate, but could be independently lowered from its current 0.75 per cent level.
Mr Trichet was right to note eurozone banks get all the liquidity they ask for; but increasingly they have been putting their liquid funds on deposit at the ECB instead of lending to one another.
Mak­ing deposits less attractive would bolster the interbank lending market.
But the decisions that matter most, and about which Mr Trichet would say the least, are those on the ECB's purchases of sovereign bonds.
Frankfurt scaled these back after the first shock intervention in Italian and Spanish debt markets last month – but last week it bought more again.
Even so, the two countries' yields rose.
Having gone into the market, the ECB cannot now exit without causing more turmoil.
That is far from ideal, but Frankfurt must keep buying – in for a cent, in for a euro – until governments hand the job to the European financial stability facility.
That could still take time.
In the meantime, the ECB acts alone – not always perfectly, but at least it is doing something.