Not all anniversaries are landmarks.
And yet, ten years after China joined the World Trade Organisation, it is impossible to overlook the consequences of this momentous decision on the global economy.
Those present in 2001 will recall how difficult the negotiation process was.
In fact, it was extraordinary that they even reached an agreement.
Bill Clinton's presidency was a study in unfulfilled potential, but this was one of its genuine achievements.
The US benefited from the deal but it was far from being the biggest winner.
China scooped the largest prize.
In areas such as agricultural goods, trade liberalisation was nothing short of dramatic.
By entering the WTO, Beijing could adopt aspects of international commercial law which would have been more difficult to introduce because of domestic constraints.
The sheer size of China's export market is the most powerful testimony to Beijing's success.
But other countries benefited too.
Since Beijing's emergence on the stage of world trade, commerce between emerging markets has enjoyed a significant boost.
It can only be a good thing that less developed countries are now trading with each other rather than relying only on Western partners.
As for the rich world, the accession of China to the WTO has created new challenges.
Consumers have enjoyed cheap Chinese goods.
At the same time, European and US companies have struggled to keep pace with ever stiffer competition.
There were also macroeconomic consequences.
The low prices of Chinese imports meant that it was easier for central banks in developed countries to meet their inflation targets.
This triggered the cuts in interest rates which, in turn, helped to cause an unsustainable credit boom.
Now that the bubble has burst, the consequences of China's entry in the trade arena have become painfully apparent.
Ten years on, the future outlook remains mixed.
Chinese trade policy still has not evolved sufficiently.
Beijing is determined not to let its currency appreciate as it should do.
Though there have been modest steps forward in its exchange rate policy, the world's economy is still far from seeing the problems associated with global imbalances resolved.
An unbalanced world economy is storing up future dangers.
Nor will such imbalances help Beijing's rise.
China is now the superpower-in-waiting. But that brings responsibilities which cannot be ducked.