When Shinzo Abe became Japan's prime minister in December he delivered two messages to his central bank.
First, the Bank of Japan should move to an explicit inflation target of 2 per cent.
Second, it should take actions consistent with this goal.
The policy overhaul announced by the BoJ this week will only satisfy the first part of Mr Abe's wishlist.
The BoJ's half-heartedness is regrettable.
True, the previous policy goal – an inflation corridor of 0-2 per cent – was too conservative.
The BoJ's timorous monetary framework is one reason behind Japan's prolonged deflation.
But changing the target will not, on its own, generate inflation.
Unless the BoJ shows it is committed to its new goal, companies and consumers will continue to hold on to their cash rather than spend it.
The BoJ should have opted for immediate, bold monetary loosening.
Instead, it delayed any new round of quantitative easing until January 2014.
It also announced it would mainly target short-term government debt – a strategy that has proved ineffective in the past.
Finally, the BoJ did not commit to a precise time horizon by which it intends to reach its new target.
Markets reacted with understandable scepticism. Rather than falling, the yen strengthened against both the dollar and the euro.
The fact the BoJ did not do everything Mr Abe wanted will reassure those who fear its independence is at risk.
These include Jens Weidmann, president of Germany's Bundesbank, who accused Japan's government of meddling with monetary policy.
However, his criticisms are off the mark.
Finance ministers should not announce interest rate moves, as they did in the 1970s.
But it is appropriate for a government to exchange views with the central bank when its monetary policy is harmful to the economy.
And it is appropriate for Mr Abe to appoint a more inflation-friendly bank governor when the term of the current one ends in April.
He should do so; this would help end the cycle of deflation.
Of course, this should not relieve Mr Abe of his own responsibilities.
To return to sustained growth, Japan needs to deregulate its service sector and increase women's participation in the work force.
The prime minister should also deal with Japan's staggering debt.
Unless the economy stays weak, the planned doubling of sales tax to 10 per cent by 2015 should go ahead.
These reforms are politically more difficult, but they are just as important as Mr Abe's battle with his central bank.