When Mario Draghi unveiled his unlimited bond-buying scheme last September, the president of the European Central Bank hoped this would reassure investors enough that he would not actually have to use it.
So far, his ploy has worked.
During the last four months of 2012, €93bn in private money has flowed back into the eurozone periphery.
This wave of cash is making it much easier for governments in the periphery to issue their debt.
This month, Spain sold its first 10-year bonds in more than a year, with foreign investors the biggest buyers.
Corporate bonds and equities are also back in demand, with investors lured by their attractive valuations.
True, this capital inflow – equivalent to 9 per cent of the combined output of Italy, Spain, Ireland, Portugal and Greece – is less than a quarter of the money that left the periphery in the first eight months of 2012.
Investors are still wary as they are mainly buying liquid assets, which can be sold quickly were the tide to turn again.
There are few examples of foreign direct investment, which would help to lift the region's most fragile economies out of deep recession.
Yet the tentative return of market confidence suggests it was too alarmist to say that the euro was destined to fail.
Investors move in herds.
When enough of them lost confidence in the common currency, others followed, irrespective of what they believed.
Such is market psychology that Mr Draghi is right to mention the possibility of positive contagion across the eurozone.
Lower borrowing costs for governments may ease their need for fiscal consolidation, which will help growth.
As banks become less nervous about their own refinancing needs, they will be more comfortable in funding corporate investment needs.
Of course, the recent strengthening of the euro – caused by this wave of money into Europe – will make life harder for exporters.
But a greater risk for the currency area is the return of complacency among policy makers.
As the crisis recedes, the sense of urgency for structural and institutional reforms will ease.
Governments on the periphery will no longer feel they have to continue on their virtuous path to competitiveness.
Creditor countries will be tempted to obstruct the region's ambitious project to form a banking union.
Politicians, however, should push ahead with these reforms.
As the eurozone knows well, when investors begin to lose confidence, a stampede for the exit can quickly follow.