Prudential's mega-bid for AIA is the sort of once-in-a-lifetime consolidation that can happen as a result of financial crises.
The UK insurance group has taken advantage of the collapsed fortunes of its felled US rival, AIG, to snatch away its crown-jewel Asian operations — in spite of these being one and a half times its own size.
That Prudential has persuaded its bankers and investors to take the financial risk may seem astonishing.
But the deal taps into a widely-held perception that the crisis has accelerated a pre-existing trend for financial power to shift eastwards.
In his presentation to investors, Prudential's chief executive, Tidjane Thiam, illustrated the opportunity with tables showing the rates of gross domestic product growth and life insurance penetration for the countries in which AIA is present.
For the most part these are characterised — as is much of Asia — by a mouthwatering combination of fast economic growth, high savings rates and low competition.
This is the region in which growth is to be found, is the message.
Why not invest in it?
It is too early to tell whether Mr Thiam has obtained a bargain.
Even though AIG was under pressure to return cash to the US government and had limited options to raise it, the price looks high.
There are not massive benefits to be wrung purely from putting the two entities together.
But this is a deal that will ultimately work only if the growth rates he anticipates are achievable.
If he is right, Prudential would appear to have transformed into an entity well designed for the financial future.
The share of its operations that are in Asia will rise from less than 40 per cent to about two-thirds.
But investing largely on the basis of GDP is not without its risks.
Non-Asian insurers such as Prudential and AIA have been able to expand rapidly in Asia because insurance has been a relatively small part of GDP and the technology they brought was perceived as valuable.
Even now in Indonesia — a growth market for the expanded Prudential — insurance premiums account for less than 1 per cent of GDP, as against 13 per cent for the UK.
But as the savings market expands, Asian countries may be less comfortable about foreigners taking a sizeable share of it.
After all, insurance is a long-term savings business like banking. And banking tends to be highly protected in Asia.
Prudential may be big in Asia, but it will always be an outsider.
It is taking on a political risk in concentrating in the region. It should not put all its eggs in this basket.