China and Japan have sparred over disputed islands in the East China Sea.
They have clashed over visits to a shrine in Tokyo and they have locked rhetorical horns in the editorial pages of a British newspaper, in which their respective ambassadors compared each other's country to the dark forces of Harry Potter's Voldemort.
Now their travelling dispute has journeyed yet further afield: to Africa.
Last week, Shinzo Abe, Japan's prime minister, visited three African countries in an effort to drum up business and goodwill.
The first Japanese prime minister to spend time on the continent in eight years, he visited Côte d'Ivoire, Mozambique and Ethiopia in what he said was a “new frontier of Japanese diplomacy”.
Japan has been a long-time aid donor to Africa, though it cannot match the huge amounts China is pouring into the continent.
Still, in June, Tokyo hosted nearly 40 African leaders, pledging to step up commercial engagement as well as offering $14bn in assistance over five years.
There was a subtext to Mr Abe's visit.
One of his spokesmen could not resist comparing Japan's modus operandi in Africa with that of China, which he characterised as extractive, exploitative and conducive to corruption.
Japan, he said smilingly, “cannot provide African leaders with beautiful houses or beautiful ministerial buildings”.
Instead Tokyo's policy was to “aid the human capital of Africa”.
Not surprisingly, Chinese diplomats rose to the bait.
One sought to expose the “real Japan” – by holding up photographs depicting Japanese atrocities during the second world war.
None of this is very edifying.
The truth is that China's interest in African resources – while not being devoid of the characteristics described by Tokyo's spokesman – has been a net positive for Africa.
Chinese engagement has coincided with much better economic prospects for several countries, particularly those endowed with energy or commodities whose prices have risen as a consequence of Chinese demand.
True, Chinese companies rely too heavily on Chinese workers.
True too, Beijing has been willing to do deals with African leaders without obvious qualms about who benefits from the largesse.
Yet Chinese engagement has done much good.
Though Beijing has sometimes built white elephants, it has also greatly improved Africa's infrastructure, indispensable for development.
Western engagement with Africa before China came on the scene was hardly a role model: colonialism followed by postcolonial hand-ringing and scant economic progress.
Neither has Japan's record been unblemished.
Too often, Japanese aid was tied to the benefit of Japanese companies.
If the rhetoric could be cooled, however, much good could come of Japan's renewed push, which matches the diplomatic and commercial effort Mr Abe is making closer to home in the likes of India, Indonesia and Vietnam.
Africa can help Tokyo's quest for friends and commercial opportunity.
Japan needs to diversify its sources of energy, particularly after the Fukushima disaster left most of its nuclear power stations idle.
Japan also needs a fresh source of rare earths.
Africa too could provide a market for Japanese goods – both industrial and consumer.
For the latter, Japanese companies will have to get better at tailoring products to less affluent markets.
Africa can even be “useful” in Mr Abe's quest to prove that Japan is a constructive member of the international community, not the military threat China implies.
Japan already has 400 troops in South Sudan as part of a UN peacekeeping force.
Tokyo should continue to engage with Africa on all fronts and to prove that it offers an attractive alternative.
Competition with China is inevitable, both ideological and commercial.
But it would be better not to shout about it.