The US this month waived objections to limited World Bank assistance for Myanmar.
The UN has agreed to work jointly with Naypyidaw to hold an international aid conference.
The European Union says it will provide €150m over the next two years, nearly as much as its contribution in the past 15.
My-anmar is coming in from the cold.
It is welcome that the international community is responding to political reform.
It will bolster the position of pro-reformers – reducing the possibility of a backlash by hardliners – and sends a message to pariah states, including North Korea, that change can bring tangible benefits.
Still, both the pace of re-engagement and the amount of aid flowing into the country need to be carefully monitored.
The risk is that, with the dam wall of international opprobrium bursting, aid will pour into Myanmar faster than it can handle it.
The dangers are threefold.
First, after decades of isolation there is a desperate lack of capacity.
More than money, at this stage the government requires technical expertise of the sort the International Monetary Fund is now providing.
The government has shown an encouraging desire to grasp these thorns.
Without such technical groundwork, the system could be swamped.
Second, when aid starts to flow, projects must be properly co-ordinated.
There are early signs that programmes are being implemented willy-nilly, without due thought to overarching national goals.
That is perhaps inevitable.
However, international organisations, such as the World Bank, can help to counter this tendency.
Third, the pace of re-engagement is important.
Hillary Clinton, US secretary of state, promised to match action with action.
Donors should study the conduct of April by-elections, likely to make Aung San Suu Kyi, the opposition leader, a member of parliament.
They should also press for the release of remaining political prisoners and for anti-corruption reform, which is vital if aid is to reach its intended recipients.
Finally, they should offer to intermediate to resolve long-simmering conflicts with minorities.
Myanmar's need is pressing.
After years of misrule, the country – once the world's biggest rice exporter – has a per capita income of $800 and a life expectancy of 63.
That puts it 149 out of 187 on the UN's human development index.
Undirected aid alone cannot solve such problems.
If the government puts in place effective systems capable of absorbing inflows, half the battle will be won.