The US may be pivoting eastward in an attempt to answer the rise of China.
The EU may be gazing inward in its tortured attempts to emerge from the eurozone crisis.
But the Middle East – rarely more combustible than now – will not be wished away by inertia or introversion.
It will continue to monopolise the firefighting capacity of world powers throughout 2013 and beyond.
The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is now so close to being made insoluble – at least within the two-states framework the international community set but the US declines to press on its Israeli ally – that it requires separate consideration.
As of now, Syria is the most incendiary of the region's tinderboxes.
More than 21 months after the uprising started against Bashar al-Assad, and then turned into an insurgency to counter savage repression, the regime is engaged in a rearguard action, punctuated by punitive air strikes.
The rebels have momentum and tactical agility.
Whether or not western powers give them the heavy weapons they need to counter the regime's still far superior firepower, the Assads are finished.
Arming the rebels now may hasten their departure, arrest the disturbing advance of jihadi extremism and galvanise the opposition.
The rebels are starting to cohere, invested with legitimacy this month by the recognition of more than 100 countries, including the US and EU member states.
But as the regime enters an endgame that could get still bloodier, it is politically incoherent to mount such a diplomatic offensive while outsourcing the arming of the rebels to Gulf states.
They are enhancing the influence of Islamism far beyond what Syria's multi-confessional society would normally tolerate.
That will make stabilising Syria after the regime's implosion even messier, especially if the Assads keep trying to spread the conflict to neighbouring countries such as Lebanon and Turkey.
The fall of the Assads will be a strategic setback to Iran and its regional allies such as Hizbollah, the Shia Islamist state within the fragile Lebanese state.
But that could quickly be reversed if Israel were to carry out its threats to attack Iran's nuclear installations, enabling Tehran's theocrats to rally disaffected Muslims across the region and strengthen their grip at home.
It is easy to imagine how such a conflict would drag in the US, disrupt the Gulf and its oil traffic, and set fire to Lebanon.
The best chance of avoiding this is if President Barack Obama is more forthright in his second term about the terms of negotiation with Tehran.
The only realistic deal is to allow Iran to enrich uranium to low levels, under strict international monitoring, but draw a red line against any attempt to construct a nuclear weapon.
If this does not become the settled policy of the international community, a new war in the Middle East becomes more than likely.
While that is dangerous in itself, it would also influence the still promising, if necessarily messy, process of the Arab awakening from a long era of tyranny.
The mainstream Islamists who have most profited from the toppling of dictatorships in Tunisia, Egypt, Yemen, Libya and now probably Syria have yet to demonstrate they understand the principles of pluralist democracy, just as their opponents have yet to show they can come up with a convincing alternative, beyond their brave but politically inchoate ability to fill public squares.
Egypt is the crux.
The attempt by President Mohamed Morsi and his Muslim Brotherhood to impose their constitutional blueprint is convulsing a diverse society, sabotaging an already prostrate economy, holding up the rebuilding of institutions and inciting international suspicion of Egypt as it strives to regain a leading regional role.
This is dismaying, yet Egypt still has the capacity to surprise.