The taped conversations between three executives of Anglo Irish Bank leaked to the Irish Independent newspaper offer a depressing insight into the thinking of Ireland's bankers during the crash.
In one exchange, John Bowe, head of capital markets, and Peter Fitzgerald, director of retail banking, candidly admit asking for €7bn from the government despite knowing the needs of their troubled bank were larger.
In a later call, Mr Bowe and David Drumm, chief executive, mocked foreign governments and the Irish regulator.
These feared that Anglo Irish was abusing a blanket guarantee the government had issued in an attempt to restore confidence in its banks before asking the eurozone for a €67.5bn rescue.
The executives deny they have misled the regulators.
It is for the courts to decide whether their behaviour was a criminal offence.
Yet, had the government been told the truth, it could have decided to let the bank fail instead of pouring in taxpayers' money.
That bankers appear to have abused the guarantee in order to chase deposits from Germany and the UK is diplomatic dynamite for Irish politicians.
It will be harder for them to convince eurozone partners to lift some of the debt still burdening Irish taxpayers.
The executives of Ireland's failed banks were not the only ones who lived in a bubble of hubris and easy money.
Across the Irish Sea, several bankers in the City also showed little or no regard for the public purse which eventually came to rescue them.
But the British authorities have produced a string of reports, investigating what went wrong during the crisis.
In Ireland there has been no full public inquiry to date.
Many executives and regulators who brought Ireland to its knees enjoy gold-plated pensions.
Last year, Allied Irish Banks, a nationalised bank, wrote to more than 15 of its former directors asking them to forgo part of their retirement pots.
Their response was decidedly underwhelming.
Conversely, the Irish people have stoically accepted the barrage of tax rises and spending cuts which came as a condition for the rescue.
There is no evidence that the government tried to abuse the bank guarantee.
By taking on the liabilities of its banking system in full, Irish taxpayers have rescued foreign creditors, who should have taken a hit for the crash.
When eurozone leaders decide about Ireland's bank debt, they should not use the behaviour of a few reckless bankers as an excuse to punish an entire country.