FT社论：金融市场回归现实 Leader_Rally hits reality
The plunge in global financial markets yesterday came as a timely reminder of how dependent this spring's bull run is on central banks' cheap money.
All it took was a comment by Ben Bernanke, Federal Reserve chairman, that the central bank may slow down quantitative easing “in the next few meetings”.
Japan's Nikkei 225 index fell by 7.3 per cent.
Of course, it is important to keep matters in perspective.
On the back of the Bank of Japan's monetary revolution, Japanese equities have surged by around 70 per cent during the past six months.
The correction is trivial in comparison.
What is extraordinary, however, is that Mr Bernanke's statements were not particularly hawkish.
The Fed is not promising to end QE soon – just slow it down.
Even this adjustment in pace will not occur until the US labour market is stronger.
This week's events hold lessons for governments and central bankers.
For the past few months, politicians around the world have enjoyed a free ride from their monetary authorities.
This was clearly true in Japan but also in the eurozone, where the “risk-on” climate has helped sovereign bonds in crisis-hit countries to reach record lows in spite of persistent weak economic activity.
The time bought by central banks should not be wasted.
In Tokyo, just as in Rome and Madrid, governments should push harder on the familiar but vital list of structural reforms that are needed to return to sustainable growth.
The eurozone should also accelerate on the path to a banking union, which would help weak sovereigns by severing the link with their troubled banks.
As for central bankers, yesterday's mini-crash is a reminder that a departure from unconventional monetary policy will require careful shepherding.
Mr Bernanke has so far done a good job in managing expectations, explicitly linking any future monetary tightening to the return of sustained growth.
The fact that US inflation remains below the Fed's 2 per cent target will also help him to convince investors that cheap money is not going soon.
Yet, in the absence of an exact unemployment threshold after which QE3 will slow down, investors are bound to continue to second guess the chairman.
The US experience is relevant for any other central banks – including Britain's – which intend to copy Mr Bernanke's so-called forward guidance.
Strategies based on communication are a double-edged sword.
Their success should not be taken for granted.