If at first you do not succeed, try, try again.
Some will dismiss President Barack Obama's laundry list of steps on global warming as flimsy.
Having failed to persuade Congress to pass a cap-and-trade system in his first term, he is retreating to the more modest realm of executive action in his second.
Yet it is hard to see what else he can do.
There is scant chance of persuading the 113th Congress to acknowledge man-made climate change, still less to approve tough action to slow it.
Modest though they are, Mr Obama's steps will have positive outcomes.
Opponents say he is launching a “war on coal”.
Mr Obama should embrace that as a virtue.
Two benefits will come from his order for Environmental Protection Agency regulations to reduce power plant emissions.
The biggest will be its impact abroad.
At a time of drift in global climate talks, it is good for Washington to be seen to be taking action.
Though the US is still the second-largest emitter in the world, its trajectory has been downwards for several years.
Partly because of the Great Recession, and partly because of the boom in natural gas, the US is on course to reduce its carbon output to 17 per cent below its 2005 levels by 2020.
Yet global emissions keep rising.
The most valuable thing the US can do is rekindle a sense of international urgency.
The timing is also good when China, and others, are having their own doubts about coal.
Second, the US power sector needs to be cleaned up.
In an ideal world, Congress would pass a carbon tax and allow the market to decide the rest.
In the real world, regulatory targeting make sense.
It follows the modest success of earlier mandates to improve fuel efficient standards for cars and household appliances.
Power plants generate a third of overall US emissions, and coal is responsible for most of that.
Given the growing impact of US hydraulic fracturing, the timing is good for Washington to convert the switch to gas into a “dash for gas”.
Coal's days ought to be numbered.
Mr Obama's actions will have costs, too.
Having already objected to Gina McCarthy, the president's choice to head the EPA, Senate Republicans may now kill her nomination.
There will also be a flood of lawsuits challenging the EPA's new rule book, which will in any case take a year or two to draw up.
These are prices worth paying.
The alternative would be for Mr Obama to throw up his hands in despair.
Something must surely be better than nothing.