It should have been the climax to Europe's thriller, a summit that would kill off the sovereign debt crisis with a salvo of confidence-restoring measures.
But, apart from Britain's dramatic exit, last week's European summit was entirely predictable in its inconclusiveness.
To be fair, it is good news that even modest steps were taken towards closer fiscal integration.
But the real, comprehensive fiscal union needed to restore faith in the euro, as opposed to a few new rules, remains elusive.
More urgently, the deal that was struck does nothing to resolve the immediate crisis.
Moves to bolster the International Monetary Fund and hints of more support next year for Europe's two bail-out vehicles are neither big enough nor fast enough to deal with the titanic task of funding peripheral countries' debt until confidence returns.
Hopes in the existence of a big bazooka proved misplaced.
Mario Draghi, European Central Bank president, on Thursday quashed hopes that he would launch an unlimited bond-buying programme to help indebted sovereigns, as European rules do not allow this.
Now there is the suggestion that the ECB has a cunning plan to give the bazooka to Europe's banks, which will be lent bags of cheap money, with which to buy their own countries' debt.
The argument is tempting.
Friday's summit declared that there will be no more haircuts on sovereign debt.
So if banks can get three-year ECB money at 1 per cent and buy Italian bonds at 6 per cent, this could help cut debt costs while bringing seemingly risk-free returns.
This is not contrary to European rules and it could be in both parties' interests.
If the sovereigns go, Europe's banks are front line victims.
However, there are many reasons to be wary of such a solution, not least because it fools no one.
The ECB would in effect be funding sovereign debt through Europe's banks.
This is hardly in the spirit of the European treaty.
Second, shareholders might rightly question why banks, which have been shedding periphery bonds despite having had the arbitrage opportunity for some time now, were suddenly scooping them up.
Most importantly, if the current crisis was sparked by the link between sovereign and bank risk, does it make sense to intensify that link?
Right now there may be no alternative to save the euro.
But it amounts to little more than sleight of hand in a crisis where clarity and resolve would do much more to restore confidence.