It is not yet a flood, but the trickles eroding the walls that keep China's currency within the country's territory are beginning to add up to something.
Already last year, the renminbi debuted as a currency for bond financing by multinational corporations (McDonald's); trade credits (to an Indonesian group by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China); and offshore deposit accounts (to the Bank of China's personal banking clients in London, New York and other cities).
Last week, further holes were pierced in the dam of non-convertibility. Pharo Management, a hedge fund manager, announced it will offer renminbi-denominated shares in its funds. The city of Wenzhou launched a pilot project to lighten restrictions on its residents' ability to invest money offshore. And a year and a half after Chinese corporations were allowed to settle cross-border trades in their own currency, permission has also been granted to use renminbi to acquire or found new operations overseas.
That many of these moves make it easier to ship renminbi out of the country does not change the redback's natural and favoured direction.
If Chinese authorities were relaxing restrictions on capital inflows as freely as on outflows, the renminbi would have appreciated by more than the 3.5 per cent it has risen against the dollar since last year.
The fact that markets are hungrier to send money into China than out of it is why Beijing will remain wary of going beyond baby steps in capital account liberalisation.
A more convertible currency would leave only two alternatives in current market conditions: allow a much higher exchange rate or let in huge, and potentially destabilising, capital flows.
Yet taking a longer view, it is inconceivable that a rising economic giant will forever content itself with a pygmy currency.
As trade ties between China and other emerging countries deepen, why use a third country's money to invoice their transactions?
Renminbi-denominated trade is catching on fast, rising to some $50bn worth of deals in the past six months – from zero two years ago.
And twinkling on the horizon – and surely in some Politburo members' minds – stands the prize of global reserve currency status.
Yet that could come only, if ever, after full convertibility and radical changes to China's capital markets.
That way lie big risks, a fundamental transformation of the Chinese economy, and a loss of control that China's leaders will not tolerate any time soon.