It is a bad season in Washington for supporters of clean energy.
Last week Stephen Chu, the US energy secretary, was grilled for an entire day on Capitol Hill over the bankruptcy of Solyndra, the solar-panel maker, which had been kept afloat by a $535m taxpayer guarantee.
No clear links were uncovered between the Obama administration's support for Solyndra and the fact that its largest shareholder has raised money for Barack Obama, US president.
That did not stop some wild allegations – topped by Michele Bachmann, the Republican presidential hopeful, who said that Solyndra's bankruptcy “made Watergate look like child's play”.
Such hyperbole will fade. But the scandal could have a damaging effect on those who would like to see more effective support from Washington for clean energy. That would be a pity.
To be sure, as Lawrence Summers, the former senior adviser to Mr Obama, has said, Washington often makes a “crappy VC [venture capitalist]” – governments should not ordinarily be in the business of lending to private business.
But that is too simple.
First, the US federal government already has dozens of guarantee programmes that help give lenders confidence to back projects ranging from transport infrastructure to science parks.
In many cases – but not all – the guarantees help sustain commercially viable projects.
Second, Solyndra is one of many to benefit from the $18.4bn in clean energy loans from Mr Obama's $787bn stimulus package in 2009.
Some are thriving. Even Solyndra, with almost $900m in assets, could pay back some of what it owes.
Finally, the energy department may have been sloppy in some of its due diligence – it could have pulled the plug on Solyndra last March when it instead agreed to restructure the loan.
But they ought to have anticipated the collapse in global silicon prices over the past two years, which left Solyndra high and dry.
One question will linger: did the White House's desire to showcase a clean energy success in Silicon Valley trump hard commercial calculation?
This has yet to be conclusively settled.
With tens of thousands of subpoenaed pages to sift through, lawmakers may yet claim Mr Chu's scalp.
But the bigger question – how to frame an effective incentive for the growth of clean energy – may well be a casualty of the Solyndra scandal.
At a time when China and others are building a dominant share of the global clean energy market, this could impose a far higher eventual cost on the US taxpayer.