Europe's response to its sovereign debt crisis over the past 18 months has been akin to that of an unruly orchestra, with various sections refusing to play to a common score.
Yet this could be the week that the musicians finally began to play in harmony.
On Wednesday, the world's central banks took co-ordinated action to avert a liquidity crunch for Eurozone banks by injecting cheap dollars into the financial system.
The same day, Germany dropped objections to the idea of providing extra support to the International Monetary Fund, which could enable it to play a bigger role in stemming the crisis.
And on Thursday, Mario Draghi, European Central Bank president, signalled that he stood ready to take more aggressive action to save the euro.
But he has set a prerequisite ¨C and meeting it is not a given. Eurozone states must do their part by agreeing a new fiscal compact, setting once and for all common rules to restore market confidence in the stability and future of the currency area.
Critics have attacked the ECB for failing to step in as a lender of last resort for troubled countries.
The Financial Times remains of the view that this is not the way forward.
Mr Draghi's comments, however, for the first time indicate that the ECB is willing to intervene more aggressively than it has done so far.
He remains deliberately vague about what action the central bank would take.
But the ECB president has cleverly stepped up the pressure on Europe's member state governments, by adding momentum to the initiatives this week which have given some hope to exhausted debt markets.
France and Germany now feel they have some credible interlocutors in the periphery, notably Mario Monti in Italy.
But they remain at loggerheads over the contents of a new fiscal compact.
Germany again ruled out the joint issuance of debt through eurobonds. France is firmly resisting any budgetary constraints that are legally binding at the EU level.
Mr Draghi is right to say that unless agreement can be reached on a clear set of rules, confidence will not return.
A signal on longer-term goals is needed, and urgently, to build on the fragile hopes raised this week.
By setting out his stall ahead of next week's summit of European leaders, Mr Draghi has now put the responsibility for the return of confidence ¨C and the possible success or failure of the euro ¨C firmly on their shoulders.
It would be a tragedy of Wagnerian proportions should they fail to rise to the challenge.