Documents have come to light in the wake of Muammer Gaddafi's dethronement that – if proved genuine – could inculpate the British intelligence services for complicity in abuse and torture of terror suspects at Libyan hands.
For both the British people and the intelligence services themselves, it is crucial to establish the truth of and full political accountability for what has or has not been done.
The UK-Libyan intelligence relationship that developed under former prime minister Tony Blair's entente with Col Gaddafi is well known.
But the documents imply a degree of cosiness that contradicts the intelligence services' defence of their anti-terrorism tactics.
One indicates that MI6 welcomed the opportunity to interrogate Abdul Hakim Belhadj, once a member of a jihadist group and now head of the militia controlling Tripoli, after his illegal rendition to Libya by the US Central Intelligence Agency.
Another suggests that the UK mounted its own rendition of Abu Munthir, an alleged plotter of terrorist attacks in the UK, from Hong Kong to Tripoli.
If either is true, it will undermine intelligence service claims to have been, at worst, slow to detect abusive practices linked to US renditions, and not to have engaged in rendition on its own account.
It is welcome that the Gibson inquiry, set up to probe claims of UK complicity in rendition or torture of Guantánamo Bay prisoners, has swiftly announced it will also look into allegations prompted by information from Libya.
The Gibson inquiry has been criticised for being too secretive.
But it is understandable that not all information can be made public.
It is incumbent upon inquiry members to apply secrecy only when national security truly demands it, and never to spare political figures from embarrassment.
The whole truth must finally be told.
Two principles must guide judgments on whatever facts are in the end verified.
First, no intelligence service can do its job – especially in the years shortly after 9/11 – without dealing with unsavoury regimes.
But it is a false dichotomy between no contact at all and outsourcing interrogation to services whose assurances that no torture will occur are only believable to the wilfully ignorant.
Second, a state of law must be protected by legal means.
If intelligence officers complied with expectations to act outside of the law, that is to their discredit.
If their political masters nourished such expectations – by preferring not to know how intelligence is acquired – the greatest disgrace is theirs.