Rather than turning into a “lame duck”, China's government seems to have become proactive.
Months before a landmark change of leadership, Beijing has speeded up its plans to open up its capital account.
Beijing's steps are still largely symbolic. But they show that the reformist agenda is at least firmly on the table.
The latest move concerns the so-called qualified foreign institutional investor scheme, which allows a selected number of institutions to invest in China's capital markets.
The new rules will allow international fund managers to invest a combined total of $80bn, $50bn more than before.
From Beijing's point of view, this move is both manageable and harmless.
Outside institutions only account for 1 per cent of China's free-float market capitalisation.
Letting more funds in will do no harm to the languishing benchmark Shanghai Composite index, which has fallen 62 per cent since its last peak in 2007.
This step should not be analysed on its own.
Last month Beijing decided to extend renminbi loans to big emerging nations.
The two decisions show there may be some substance to a recent publication by China's central bank indicating a blueprint for the liberalisation of the country's capital account.
Having chosen to speed up the opening of its capital account, China should not rush it.
Before lifting capital controls it must ensure that its banks are strong enough.
Otherwise, were there to be a confidence crisis, there would be a risk of capital flight.
Unfortunately, changing China's credit institutions has so far proved very hard.
A cap on deposit rates guarantees them hefty profits.
The banks' strong ties with local politicians frustrate the anyway limited shots at reform made by the central government.
There are small signs that this reluctance to intervene may be coming to an end.
Wen Jiabao, China's premier, said last Tuesday that he wanted to “smash the monopoly” of the country's big state-owned banks.
That could mean advancing reform to lift the cap on the deposit rate.
Mr Wen's record in delivering on his promises of reform is thin.
In his nine years in power, many of his statements have been contradicted by the inaction of his government.
But his decision to speak out at a time of change in Chinese politics is a good sign for those who are hoping for reform.
It will be difficult for the future leadership to reverse changes that are made now.