Napoleon dismissed Britain as a nation of shopkeepers.
George Osborne's bid to make it easier for Chinese tourists to come on shopping trips to the UK at least proves that retailers' fortunes weigh heavily on the government's mind.
The move is part of a broader initiative to help British business do more business with China, a country that is now the world's largest buyer of foreign goods and services behind the US and the EU. The UK has won only 1 per cent of this market, far less than its 3 per cent share of world trade.
It does not help that China's imports are skewed towards goods that Britain does not make.
Germany, which specialises in industrial gear needed to get the country's factories humming, has done much better.
But that is not the whole story.
The UK wins less Chinese custom than countries such as France, Brazil and Angola.
According to UK Treasury calculations, British exports to China would triple if it won the same share of Chinese product markets as it does in the corresponding global ones.
Part of the problem has been the UK's refusal to play the obsequious merchant.
Beijing last year declared itself “hurt” when David Cameron met the Dalai Lama in public.
His predecessors courted China, but also lectured it about human rights and pollution.
The charm offensives launched this week by George Osborne, the chancellor, and Boris Johnson, mayor of London, signal a more pragmatic approach.
As well as hawking its wares, Britain is hoping to tap Chinese investors.
Sunday's announcement of Chinese participation in the redevelopment of Manchester airport follows a number of similar property deals in London.
Other initiatives will be more sensitive.
A Chinese state-owned company is expected to help to build and operate a UK nuclear reactor, perhaps to a Chinese design, raising worries about energy security.
According to a report in the Financial Times, Mr Osborne will announce special arrangements allowing UK branches of Chinese banks to rely on their foreign parents' capital instead of holding capital locally, and to operate primarily under Chinese rather than British supervision.
A similar arrangement with Icelandic banks proved costly.
Britain no longer has an indisputable claim to seniority in its economic partnership with China.
Unpalatable compromises will more often be necessary.
However, they should be contemplated only when they advance Britain's long-term interests, and not merely for the sake of making a fast buck.