One swallow does not a summer make; nor does a single quarter of economic growth guarantee the recession's end.
Even so, the third-quarter US gross domestic product figures — annualised growth was 3.5 per cent — are heartening.
Far from signalling that the time has come to launch exit strategies, however, they also reveal that it would be madness to withdraw stimulus measures right now.
The rebound of the world's largest economy was no surprise, but it was stronger than most forecasters expected.
The detailed breakdowns make clear that the expansion was broad-based: virtually all components of output grew, or shrank at a much slower pace than in the previous quarter.
Americans rediscovered their taste for consumption: personal expenditures grew by an annualised 3.4 per cent after falling in four of the previous six quarters.
Durable goods were swept up, with sales higher by an annualised 22 per cent, but services and nondurables as well grew at respectable if modest speeds.
Businesses and households also started investing again: although non-residential construction fell for the fifth quarter in a row, equipment spending rose for the first time since 2007, and residential investment jumped by an annualised 23 per cent.
But this spending spree is brittler than one would like.
The durable goods spurt — even as disposable incomes fell — was powered by a car scrappage scheme that borrowed GDP from the future more than anything else.
With motor vehicles excluded, output grew by only 1.9 per cent.
Up to half of that in turn consisted of businesses rebuilding depleted inventories — a sign of optimism, but also, like cash-for-clunkers, a one-off boost to output that will not persist.
Which is why government action remains crucial to nurse this economy back to health.
The administration is a good third of the way through a stimulus package that is indispensable to prevent growth from slowing down again.
Federal spending rose briskly; now is not the time to cut this stimulus short.
Moreover, cash-strapped state and local governments are the dark spot in this improving picture: their spending was the only GDP component that went into decline.
Congress would do well to consider using its ability to borrow cheaply to assist capitols and town halls banned from engaging in deficit spending on their own.
A credible plan for deficit-cutting is urgently needed; its implementation is not.
Those who think deficit spending a sin may pray for government continence — but not yet.