The bone thrown by the Basel committee to the banks in relaxing the new “liquidity coverage ratio” at the weekend was largely what the industry had wanted.
It was also a capitulation to good sense as much as one to sectoral interests.
The LCR requires banks to hold liquid assets at least equal to the amount of capital clients might be expected to withdraw over a 30-day period in a crisis.
The collapse of Lehman Brothers – when the global financial system was brought to its knees by one bank running out of funds – showed why such a requirement is necessary.
But the draft LCR's original definition of high-quality liquid assets was ill-designed.
By treating government debt as the most liquid of assets, it echoed the earlier Basel error of treating it as risk-free.
The painful lesson of the eurozone crisis is that sovereign debt need be neither.
The banks were right, therefore, to push for a wider definition of liquid assets including blue-chip stocks and corporate bonds.
If trading in such securities can remain liquid even when some sovereign debt markets freeze, including them – subject to proper haircuts – encourages more diversified and robust liquidity buffers.
The Basel committee accepted this.
It also added sensible guidance to make clear that a bank may run down its liquidity stockpile in a crisis with the permission of its supervisor.
A liquidity buffer is a powder to be kept dry so that it can be used when needed, not held on to in all circumstances.
Other goodies the banking sector asked for and obtained are less easily justifiable.
Basel gave more than banks had dared to expect on how bad a liquidity squeeze they must be prepared for.
The assumed outflow rates have been cut, sometimes by a lot.
We have learnt, however, that historical experience is a poor guide to how bad things can become.
Retaining a more conservative approach would have been wiser, especially as a broadened class of eligible assets already makes the LCR less onerous.
Important as the LCR is, it must not overshadow the importance of bank solvency.
Central banks can always provide liquidity, and while their facilities should not be a first resort for banks, the Basel committee is right to signal it will incorporate access to them in its rules.
Insolvent banks, in contrast, must not be rescued by money presses.
Similarly, the Bank of England's Mervyn King underlined that there is no way an LCR can deal with a solvency crisis.
A decent liquidity rule does not compensate for Basel III's pusillanimous and overly-delayed capital adequacy rules.