""This company is independent of the government.""
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai, tetchily confirmed yesterday that his emirate will not guarantee the debts of Dubai World, the publicly owned local conglomerate now struggling with $59bn of debt.
The hereditary ruler of the city-state also brushed aside concerns that the announcement last week that Dubai World wanted to delay the repayment of some of its debt indicated a greater crisis for Dubai itself.
Sheikh Mohammed told reporters that international investors ""do not understand anything"".
That may be true.
The cost of insuring against a default by Dubai — now $56,931 to insure a million dollars of the emirate's debt — could be too high.
Investors, however, cannot be blamed for not understanding the relationships between Dubai's institutions that are, whether intentionally or not, kept blurry and ambiguous.
As in Saudi Arabia and the other members of the United Arab Emirates, there is no clear division in Dubai between state institutions, parastatal bodies, publicly owned companies and royal property.
The line between the state and the state-owned, so clear in the mind of Sheikh Mohammed, is in fact ill-defined.
This murky relationship helped Dubai's public companies to borrow cheaply during the boom: many investors assumed they enjoyed a state guarantee.
Having allowed a belief in state-backing for Dubai World to become entrenched, the state's decision not to guarantee its debts therefore looked like reneging.
It would make a salutory change for investors without formal guarantees not to be bailed out by a state.
The world could absorb it: default by Dubai World would not be an Arabian Lehman Brothers.
Legally, moreover, the emirate is at liberty to refuse to backstop the company.
Dubai would, however, pay a heavy price in terms of reputation.
So, too, would Abu Dhabi: the oil-rich emirate had allowed it to be assumed that it stood squarely behind Dubai.
This would be regrettable.
Dubai has a shot at being a serious financial centre: it ploughed much of its borrowings into building world-class infrastructure and has a still-viable entrepôt model.
If that is not to be wasted, Dubai needs, at the very least, to explain itself to its investors, reveal the scale of its debts and measure realistically its likely revenues.
This would be painful, but a city that aspires to be a hub in a global economy cannot be run from behind a curtain.