Something is somewhat amiss in China.
As export markets stuttered in the aftermath of the financial crisis, the country turned to credit to fuel its growth.
Total debt owed by Chinese households, companies and governments now stands at almost 200 per cent of gross domestic product, up from 130 per cent in 2008.
Much of this has been squandered.
In this week's three-part series, the Financial Times reports vividly on the unused factories, unfinished roads and unlived-in apartments that are the economic detritus left behind by the binge.
Such rapid increases in borrowing usually end in tears.
Time and again in emerging economies from Argentina to South Korea, and recently across the developed world, credit booms have spawned an unmanageable load of bad debt, triggering a crisis when creditors eventually took flight.
In China, however, this is an unlikely outcome.
Stringent capital controls insulate the Chinese financial system.
Household savers cannot run, for they have nowhere else to go.
The economy's other large creditor – the Chinese government – controls the country's currency and owns much of its wealth, including huge foreign exchange reserves.
The chance of an uncontrollable financial meltdown seems remote.
Nevertheless, the looming hangover may be painful.
China's economy is highly dependent on credit.
This was true even before indebtedness began to spiral in the years following the crisis.
Both the official banking sector and informal sources of credit play a large role.
Since much of their lending in recent years funded investment that has turned out to be less productive than hoped, much of it can be expected to sour.
While there is no threat to the solvency of the financial system taken as a whole, some lenders will struggle, disrupting the supply of credit.
This could seriously impede growth.
Lenders' distress must not be allowed to restrict the flow of credit to the real economy, if there are profitable loans to be made.
Yet the real worry about China's debt overhang is not the disruption it might wreak but the deeper imbalance of which it is a symptom.
The economy is excessively skewed towards investment.
It was already so in 2007, when investment accounted for 42 per cent of GDP.
The credit boom has driven that number still higher, to 48 per cent in 2010.
It is impossible to find enough productive investment opportunities to absorb all of these resources, as China's bridges to nowhere eloquently testify.
This presents the government with a macroeconomic quandary.
In the short term, growth could be sustained by employing old methods with even greater enthusiasm, allowing continued credit growth to feed the investment frenzy.
Even if this is economically feasible, however, it cannot long continue.
Chinese citizens are hankering for a better life.
Their government cannot afford to be seen as an orchestrator of grand follies.
A more sustainable course would be to rebalance the economy away from investment and towards consumption.
Since savings rates are high and the habit of thrift dies hard, that would require a rise in either personal incomes or government spending.
There is plenty of scope for the latter.
Public health services are starved of cash; poorly equipped, and staffed by underpaid doctors who are prone to negligence and corruption.
They are no longer adequate.
Other services, such as social care for children and the elderly, have improved little even as China has grown richer.
In a country whose cities are often shrouded by smog and whose food is sometimes tainted by deadly contaminants, more could usefully be spent on environmental protection.
Unusually, this is an economic problem that can be solved by spending more on living better.
This is a sugared pill that the Chinese government should help its people to take.