With a leadership change looming in less than a year it is unsurprising that people are keeping quiet on the Chinese political front.
Beijing's political heir apparent, Xi Jinping, has so far given few clues about the economic policies he will pursue when he takes the helm.
And yet two documents emerging this week show that the debate on the future of China's economy is far from mute.
A report to be published on Monday by the World Bank and a Chinese government think-tank is expected to warn Beijing of the risks associated with postponing economic reforms – including scaling back the country's vast state-owned enterprises.
More importantly, a landmark report by China's central bank is asking the government to accelerate the loosening of capital controls.
While Beijing achieved full current-account convertibility in 1996, the road to capital-account liberalisation has proceeded more slowly.
Thursday's document is the most detailed plan published by any government institution to tackle what is still perceived as a thorny political issue.
That Beijing is getting serious about lifting capital controls is a good thing.
If properly implemented, the liberalisation of a country's capital-account can allow its borrowers to have better access to credit.
Competition from foreign institutions can also help to drive up the efficiency of the domestic financial sector.
While the removal of capital controls should remain China's long-term goal, the transition should not be hurried.
As Asia knows all too well, a hasty liberalisation can end in tears.
The Chinese central bank is therefore right in advocating a gradual approach to the reform.
This staged process should be accompanied by domestic change.
Beijing must use this time to strengthen both its domestic banking system and its financial markets.
Strong credit institutions can ensure that, when capital controls are removed, depositors do not move funds to safer foreign banks.
Deep capital markets can make it easier to absorb inflows without creating dangerous asset bubbles.
The world must also understand the sweeping implications of China's integration in the world capital market.
Only a collaborative approach on matters such as regulatory and accounting standards can allow the process to occur in a relatively smooth way.
The opening of China's capital market will be a bumpy ride.
It is in no one's interest that it ends in a crash.