What began with demonstrations in Madrid this spring has coalesced into something on a much grander scale.
The anger of the Indignants on the Puerta del Sol has traversed the Atlantic and has fired the supporters of the Occupy movement in New York's Zuccotti Park and beyond.
This is now a viral protest spreading to cities around the world, one that politicians ignore at their cost.
It is easy to dismiss the protests as the product of an incoherent fringe.
Certainly, the demonstrators have different aims.
While they are united in their loathing of bankers on both sides of the Atlantic, the antigovernment movement in the US, for example, is much broader and stronger than the anti-Wall Street movement.
Where the protesters do find common ground is in their outrage at the lack of economic opportunities and their alienation from mainstream politics.
Failure to address these concerns would risk reinforcing the protesters' sense of disengagement, transforming their alienation into a dangerous self-fulfilling prophecy.
For this is not simply a rerun of the antiglobalisation movement circa Seattle 1999. Nor is it yet a rejection of capitalism.
Far from standing against economic development, many of the protesters seem concerned about seeking a more equitable share in its fruits.
It is therefore in everyone's interest that their energy be directed into making capitalism work better rather than overturning it.
Concern about rising inequality is hardly new.
Globalisation has put every job under pressure in the advanced western economies.
The information revolution has also eliminated vast swaths of jobs previously deemed secure.
The global financial crisis and the deep recession has made these pressures even more acute.
While people generally understand that living standards may not rise at the pre-recession rate and could even fall, they are dismayed at the failure of political leaders to ensure that the burden is shared more fairly.
Politicians have understandably been preoccupied by the need to restore financial credibility with markets, but they have too often glossed over the human dimension of the crisis and the blight that it has wrought – especially on the lives of the young.
The parties of the left have been particularly disappointing.
For all their high-minded talk about social justice, they have struggled to articulate how to deliver more equitable outcomes in times of austerity.
Where the protesters have a point is the way in which governments have meted out favourable treatment to certain insider groups.
Those with the best connections to political elites have been largely spared their fair share of the pain.
When the Institute of International Finance, the main industry body, reports that banks are giving out more guaranteed bonuses to newly-hired employees than they were before the crisis, it is no wonder people occupy the public space in protest.
Politicians have also largely failed to address the issue of intergenerational equity.
In continental Europe, a two-tier labour market too often obliges younger workers to suffer job insecurity, while preserving for older workers a significant degree of protection.
These problems are especially marked in countries such as Greece, where the system has privileged insiders while saddling the rest of the population with enormous debts and the prospect of sovereign default.
Such insider-outsider differences are generally the result of too little rather than too much market freedom.
They stem from rigid labour markets, implicit subsidies and corruption.
Everywhere, rising public debt is forcing cuts to the public services upon which the less well-off disproportionately depend, and squeezing the pension payments younger workers can expect to receive when they ultimately retire.
Such criticisms may appear to be thinly disguised demands for greater redistribution.
In reality, many policy choices over past decades have themselves been redistributive – in favour of the baby-boomer generation at the expense of their children and especially towards the privileged top end of that generation.
Rather than patronising the protesters, it is time to make the case for free but well-governed markets.
One-off measures, aimed at creating more opportunities – especially for the young – should be considered.
Nothing should be off the table, including pension reforms aimed at sustaining greater public investment.
In order to preserve the capitalist model, it is vital to reform.
For without public support, it will not thrive.