The central bankers of Frankfurt have thought again about how to ease the eurozone's credit crunch.
Earlier this spring, the European Central Bank floated the idea of a scheme to target directly small and medium-sized enterprises in crisis-hit countries. This week, it backed away from any large-scale intervention.
This is regrettable.
It has been clear for some time that in parts of the currency union the monetary transmission mechanism is broken.
Ultra-cheap interest rates engineered in Frankfurt do not reach businesses in countries like Italy and Spain.
The credit crunch is forcing thousands of SMEs to shut down, with disastrous consequences for local jobs.
Smaller businesses provide about 75 per cent of jobs in the euro area.
The ECB now thinks that the best way to deal with the credit crunch is to ensure that the eurozone banks are properly capitalised.
The central bankers' eyes are set on the review of the eurozone's largest lenders, which the ECB will undertake before becoming their sole supervisor next year.
Ensuring that these banks have enough capital is a precondition for them to extend more credit to SMEs. This is why a thorough assessment is needed.
But businesses in the eurozone periphery do not just borrow from the largest banks.
Since the ECB will have little say over how much capital smaller lenders hold, this is unlikely to solve the problem.
By waiting until 2014, the ECB is also wasting precious time.
Action to help SMEs is needed now.
One idea would be to develop something similar to the UK's Funding for Lending Scheme, in which banks receive cheap lending in exchange for expanding their SME loan book.
But data out this week from the Bank of England show this policy has not yet demonstrably worked.
A more effective course of action might be for the ECB to purchase bundles of SME loans directly.
While radical, this would be legal under the central bank's mandate, which prohibits monetary financing of sovereigns but does not rule out buying corporate debt.
Governments would have to share some of the credit risk.
This could be done via a less rigid use of the European Stability Mechanism.
Credit policy will not, on its own, save crisis-hit SMEs.
Improving demand by slowing down eurozone-wide austerity is more important.
But this is not a good argument for inaction.
Under Mr Draghi, the ECB has leapt boldly into the realm of unorthodox monetary policy.
It should not retreat.