Nigeria's relations with western oil companies have long been volatile.
They are now coming under extra strain.
Violence in the Niger delta, theft of oil and underinvestment are costing billions of dollars in lost revenue each year.
Government plans to overhaul the industry have heightened tensions.
On top of this, a Chinese bid to wrest control of a sixth of Nigeria's proven crude reserves risks bringing matters to a head.
State-owned CNOOC's offer for stakes in 23 prime oil blocks, all of which are part or wholly controlled by western oil groups, may have strengthened Nigeria's negotiating hand.
This, at a time the government wants to impose higher costs on the companies, renegotiate contracts and win a better price for the renewal of licenses that expired last year.
The Chinese are offering better terms.
In effect, western groups are being asked to put up or shut up.
For Nigeria there are dangers in this brinkmanship.
The country depends on oil and gas for more than 90 per cent of its foreign currency earnings.
This year production is down a third.
Litigation — should the companies be forced to relinquish shares — would increase the turmoil.
It would also be a distraction from the principal task at hand — restoring stability to the Niger delta, and restructuring the oil industry in a way that delivers fairer returns to all Nigerians.
Also, what they gain from China's higher offer they could lose in less effective recovery of oil.
The Chinese should also be careful what they wish for.
China has been busy tying up resource deals around Africa.
Unlike western companies, whose prime concern is the profit made from selling the oil, the Chinese seem more eager to secure the physical commodity.
The CNOOC offer marks a step change in that quest, even if the Chinese only obtain a fraction of what they want.
China's scramble for resources betrays a lack of confidence that global commodity markets can provide the fuel for its industrial development.
Locking in specific sources of oil may give China a sense of supply security, but in the long term it leaves it open to the vagaries of oil suppliers' politics.
If western oil groups are unwilling to match CNOOC's offer, that may be because they price in risks they know too well.
As other countries have found, once your economy depends on stability in far-flung countries, you are hostage to the imperative of maintaining that stability at any cost.
That stability — not just the current bidding war — should be Nigeria's focus.