Syria's attempt to crush once and for all the popular uprising against the dynastic dictatorship of the Assad family does not seem to be working.
Bashar al-Assad and his family-run security services and elite forces have hit on the worst possible combination: promising change while mercilessly mowing down all who demand it.
The storming this weekend of the Omari mosque in Deraa, the southern town where the revolt broke out six weeks ago, is not the sign of a confident – much less legitimate – ruling class.
The problem the regime faces is that the protests are being fuelled both by the paucity of credible reform – emboldening activists to demand more – and the accelerating savagery of repression, convincing Syrian democrats that if they retreat now they will end up dead or in the dungeons anyway.
They have to go on.
The Assads' resort to overwhelming force, moreover, is helping their opponents expand the uprising across the country – a bit like stamping on a balloon full of water.
In Deraa, the seedbed of this revolution, deadly shelling of the old quarter by tanks and 24-hour sniper fire from security forces have not prevented the brutalised inhabitants from taking to the rooftops to demand the overthrow of the regime.
Even as the death-toll from the protests approaches 600, demonstrators in a dozen other towns have rallied to break the siege of Deraa.
And as this life or death struggle unfolds, the foundations of the regime may not be as solid as they look.
Almost five decades of Ba'ath party rule mask the dominance of the Alawite minority, an off-shoot of Shia Islam, with some adherents from the Christian minority and the quiescence of elites from the Sunni majority.
Yet the Alawites are not monolithic.
The “suicide” of Ghazi Kenaan, a mainstay of the old regime – amid the murk of the 2005 assassination of former Lebanese premier Rafiq Hariri, for which Damascus is widely believed responsible – opened wounds that still fester.
The army, in which nearly all key positions are held by Alawites, is nevertheless predominantly Sunni.
There have been persistent reports of soldiers refusing to fire on demonstrators, and some saying they have turned their guns on their own comrades.
At any rate, a general and three colonels are already dead – and it is unlikely they were killed by demonstrators.m
President Assad can count on the tentacular security services and elite battalions, the strongest threads of which are held by Maher al-Assad, his brother, and Asef Shawkat, his brother-in-law.
But that is not a safe bet for long-term survival.
That is why international and regional pressure – urgent and intense – needs to be applied.
The Assads need to know they will be held accountable and that, this time, they will not get away with murder.
US and European sanctions targeting members of the family have little practical effect, but a reference to the International Criminal Court will give those doing their bidding pause for thought.
Fears of instability should the regime fall are overdone.
Only Iran, for whom Syria is a priceless Arab ally, and Hizbollah, the Lebanese Shia movement Damascus sponsors, have real cause for alarm.
Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon, subject to Syria's violent meddling and intrigue for decades, might prefer a new order in Damascus with majority support, to a regime fomenting sectarian strife.
Turkey, which has built close links with Syria, seems to be taking the long view, allowing the Syrian opposition to meet in Istanbul last week.
Even Hamas, whose politburo shelters in Damascus, last month declined to stage a show of support for the Assads.
This regime is vulnerable – and must be made to feel more so.