The high-stakes game of managing relations between the world's major economies has taken another turn – and one that underlines the dangers of using clumsy trade policies to intervene in ever more complex global industries.
Visiting China last week, Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, said that a trade dispute over solar panels would be better dealt with by negotiation than by imposing antidumping duties on low-priced imports from China.
EU solar manufacturers – dominated, as it happens, by SolarWorld, a German-headquartered company – filed a petition to the European Commission last month, following a successful similar action led by SolarWorld in the US earlier this year.
Ms Merkel's intervention is unlikely to be decisive at this stage.
The EU's trade directorate is due to make its initial report on the petition in just over a week and the indications are that it will find enough evidence to proceed to the next stage of investigation.
However, EU antidumping rules leave officials with more political discretion than, say, the equivalent US regime.
As the time comes to decide whether to impose duties and how big they should be, the commission should use the leeway it has to lean against heavy tariffs.
So-called “trade defence” instruments such as antidumping are ham-fisted ways of managing the immensely complex supply chains of the modern global economy.
The US experience with solar tariffs has simply created a mess.
Beijing has retaliated with threats to restrict imports from the US of polysilicon, the material used to make solar cells, and Chinese manufacturers have added a Taiwanese leg to their production process to circumvent the American duties.
The EU request for antidumping duties covers a broader section of the production chain to avoid such circumvention.
But that merely threatens to raise the price of solar technology at a time when Europe needs cheap energy – particularly in Germany, given the decision to shut down the country's nuclear plants within a decade.
The emphasis should be on bringing down costs and spreading the adoption of solar technology, not insisting that particular stages in the manufacturing process take place in Europe.
Europe needs to recognise that its use of trade defence should take account of wider interests than those of a single import-competing industry, or part of it.
As the EU makes its decisions on this and other cases, it should heed Ms Merkel's warning against self-defeating protectionism.