US tax authorities are finally finding their teeth.
After a long battle with politicians, the Internal Revenue Service appears be toughening its stance on international tax arbitrage that leaves taxpayers short-changed.
A joint investigation by the Financial Times and ProPublica, the not-for-profit news organisation, has revealed the extent of an arrangement between UK and US banks to profit from foreign tax credits through cross-border transactions.
The IRS claims the sole purpose of these transactions was to generate artificial foreign tax credits, which the banks deny.
Tax arbitrage has always been a thorny issue.
Traditionally policymakers support a tool seen to enhance competitiveness, while tax collectors are against the loss of revenue.
That was certainly the case in the US, where first Congress in 1998 and then the Bush administration in 2001 put a halt to any real attempt by the Treasury to crack down on tax arbitrage.
The aggressive stance now being taken by the IRS shows a shift is under way.
This is all for the good.
After all, abusive tax arbitrage is merely a way for companies and banks to acquire subsidies from unsuspecting taxpayers.
The fact that tax arbitrage was at its height during boom times also raises the question of just how real were banking profits.
But, on its own, the US effort is not enough.
International action is needed.
Governments must do more to track potentially abusive transactions, even if they benefit.
Yet, even more crucial is the need for the international community to join forces to define a simplified and common corporate tax base.
Countries will then be free to compete for investment on the far more transparent basis of tax rates, and tax collectors will be better equipped to spot potential abuses.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, as the Financial Times reports today, has asked member states to consider common measures to help fight tax avoidance.
The OECD's initiative should be given serious consideration as a first step.
Tax arbitrage will survive as long as there are different fiscal systems, and tax avoidance is not against the law.
But a host of complex and incomprehensible systems leaves ample scope for abuse.
With the shift in US policy now evident and support among some EU member states, there has never been a better opportunity to move towards the goal of a harmonised tax base.
Failure to do so would be a grave mistake.