It had the flavour of panic: Chinese financial institutions scrambled for short-term interbank loans last week before the People's Bank of China released liquidity into the market.
The episode highlights China's conundrum in managing a financial system that has racked up debts too liberally yet remains in need of further liberalisation.
Interest rates on weekly interbank loans had approached 11 per cent on Thursday – up from only 3 per cent last month.
Such rates, if sustained, could be lethal for many banks with businesses based on off-balance-sheet “wealth management products”.
These offer short-term placements in opaque structures invested in projects, typically real estate, that are often illiquid and sometimes questionable.
They are behind much of the recent 20-plus per cent growth rate in credit.
Total credit outstanding is 200 per cent of China's annual output, up from 120 per cent five years ago.
This problem simultaneously reflects the indomitable nature of financial capitalism and the unintended effects of central planning.
Savers, frustrated with official interest rates artificially kept low by government policy, create huge demand for alternative savings products that financial companies have been all too happy to provide.
At the same time, centrally mandated growth targets (and opportunities for graft) give local officials incentives to secure funds for construction by any means possible.
The concern is not just about liquidity, serious as this is given the products' maturity mismatch.
Many of these structures are also suspected of being fundamentally insolvent.
This is the financial flip side of the questionable real return on the construction that has driven Chinese growth since 2009.
If a lot of outstanding credit is bad, Beijing's task is the same as western countries have faced: how to restrain reckless lending without either precipitating a collapse or closing off credit flows to productive businesses.
The PBoC's initial refusal to ease interbank rates shows Beijing's determination to stop the credit problem from becoming worse.
But it was right to relent.
If this is a ticking bomb, it must be defused not detonated.
Liberalising interest on savings accounts will weaken demand for alternative products – but also squeeze banks' profit margin.
If demand for off-balance-sheet products is curtailed, losses may materialise.
Beijing has reserves to recapitalise banks. But it cannot undo the costs of financial failure, which must land somewhere; nor avoid the inevitably fierce political struggle over where that will be.