Senior officials from the US and China will meet in Washington this week for the latest round of their high-profile Strategic and Economic Dialogue.
Following last month's summit between President Barack Obama and Chinese leader Xi Jinping, there is much for both sides to discuss.
The US wants the new Chinese leadership to take a tougher line over North Korea's nuclear programme.
Washington wants to make progress with Beijing on climate change, amid signs that the issue has moved up the Chinese agenda.
But the most politically charged issue is whether the US can persuade China to scale back the huge amount of cyber espionage against US companies that it is accused of engaging in.
At last month's summit, President Obama took this issue right to the heart of the bilateral relationship.
Given the growing concern of US business, he was right to do so.
China vehemently rejects claims that it is stealing US and western commercial secrets. But the US is increasingly vocal in its allegations that this is now a significant threat to American competitiveness.
This year, a 60-page report by Mandiant, a US computer security company, found that Unit 61398 of China's People's Liberation Army was directly responsible for attacks on US corporations.
Tom Donilon, the former White House national security adviser, has complained that cyber attacks are “emanating from China on an unprecedented scale”.
General Keith Alexander, director of the National Security Agency and commander of US Cyber Command, says cyber theft is bringing about “the greatest transfer of wealth in history”.
The problem for the US is that the revelations by Edward Snowden, the former NSA contractor, have made it difficult to press home its case.
Mr Snowden has revealed much about the way the NSA carries out internal surveillance in the US. But far more diplomatically damaging is the revelation that the US has been penetrating China's government and military networks as well as its universities and research centres.
This allows the Chinese media to argue that US criticism of Beijing over cyber espionage is hypocritical.
As a result of the storm over Mr Snowden, it will be much harder for the US to apply diplomatic pressure at this week's Washington meetings.
However, the issue cannot be consigned to the backburner.
The US, like most states, does lots of spying in the field of national security, combating terrorism and monitoring the military movements of foreign states.
But there is no evidence that the US government conducts espionage against foreign companies in order to benefit the competitiveness of its own companies. This is something in which the Chinese are accused of engaging.
By doing so, the Chinese are changing the informal understanding of what the international spying game is about. They are also violating Beijing's obligations as a member of the World Trade Organisation to respect the sanctity of intellectual property.
Because of the uproar over Mr Snowden's revelations, the US will, for now, have to play along with the stalling tactics it expects the Chinese to use.
But the administration must make clear this week that if there is no discernible retreat in cyber espionage by the Chinese in the second half of this year, the US will look to a much tougher response in 2014.
Congress is looking to legislate a range of sanctions against Chinese companies profiting from cyber espionage, including visa bans for accused hackers and a bar to the imports of products that are derived from cyber theft.
It is in everyone's interests that China pulls back from cyber espionage – and deters Congress from going down this route.