On January 14, Tunisians sent shockwaves coursing through the Arab world by ousting their despised dictator, Zine el Abidine Ben Ali.
On Sunday, with the revolutions it set in train still raging elsewhere, Tunisia has again sent a signal of hope to a troubled region by holding the first election of the Arab spring.
The country's new class of politicians – both the victors and vanquished – must now complete the hat trick by entrenching the habits of democracy in a country that has long been deprived of such freedoms.
Sunday's elections were a sound start.
International observers judged them free and fair.
Joyous citizens took part in overwhelming numbers.
Just as importantly, the elections were held quickly – just nine months after the fall of the ancien regime.
This outcome was by no means guaranteed.
In Egypt elections have been postponed, while Libya is only just emerging from eight months of conflict.
That Tun-isia avoided such pitfalls is a tribute to its people, its politicians, and its admirably restrained military.
Yet even as they celebrate this achievement, the country's new leaders should remember that elections are merely a means to an end.
As was shown by the post-poll turmoil in Algeria in 1991, what happens after elections is just as im-portant as what happens during them.
The immediate task of the politicians elected on Sunday is to draw up a new constitution, and pave the way for full elections next year.
But Nahda, the moderate Islamist party that won most votes in Sunday's poll, also faces a broader challenge: to marry the needs of an open, tolerant and democratic society with political Islam's belief in divinely guided laws.
The Justice and Development party (AKP) has come close to this in Turkey.
But it has yet to be tried successfully in the Arab world, and Tunisia's election campaign featured numerous clashes between secularists and Islamists.
The first signs are encouraging.
Even as it moved to claim victory, Nahda indicated that it would be prepared to go into coalition with secularist parties such as the Congress for the Republic, which claimed the second-largest share of the vote, and Ettakatol.
During the campaign, Nahda's leader, Sheikh Rachid al-Ghannouchi, repeatedly affirmed his party's commitment to protecting women's rights and stressed that the model which Nahda hopes to emulate is that of Turkey's AKP.
Yet while Mr Ghannouchi's moderate credentials are clear, those of Nahda's rank and file are less so.
Controlling the impulses of the more reactionary elements in his party will be one of his biggest challenges.
No less important will be jump-starting Tunisia's economy.
The Jasmine revolution began as a protest against the widespread unemployment and economic hopelessness that characterised Tunisia under the kleptocratic Mr Ben Ali.
Those problems remain: youth unemployment stands at 23 per cent; and the revolution has added more.
Tourism, which accounted for 7 per cent of national output has collapsed, and economic growth is set to fall to less than
1 per cent this year.
If Tunisians do not feel their lot improving quickly under the new leadership, the regime will struggle.
Here, the west can help.
In May, the Group of Eight promised $20bn of loans to Tunisia and Egypt over the next three years.
So far, none of this has made its way to Tunisia.
The west should speed up this process, and be prepared to do more if necessary.
With the right help, the odds are in Tunisia's favour.
It is close to European markets, has a well educated population and the region's largest middle class.
Not all these advantages are shared by its peers, which means that its success will be hard to replicate.
Nonetheless, it has given the region an encouraging example to follow.