Anyone who still had doubts about the dire state of Europe's mass-market car industry should now have seen them laid to rest.
PSA Peugeot Citroën, the larger and more financially distressed of France's two carmakers, is heading for a big first-half loss, haemorrhaging €200m of cash a month, with little chance it will be able to staunch the bleeding before 2014.
To keep the company afloat on a market flooded with discounted small cars, chief executive Philippe Varin has had to raise €1bn from investors, start cutting 6,000 jobs, and postpone crucial investments such as a plant in India.
Last week he said another 6,500 jobs would go in France, and the Aulnay factory outside Paris would stop making cars from 2014.
A second plant in Rennes would be scaled back.
Peugeot's volume-car competitors are hardly gloating.
Europe's whole car industry is in the sickhouse – except a lucky luxury segment; Volkswagen; and Hyundai/Kia.
Manufacturers' dwindling cash, plant closures, and angry railing by politicians evoke memories of the US industry as it slid towards bankruptcy in 2008 and 2009, in a crisis that could have cost millions of jobs.
Europe needs to learn from the way that the US reinvigorated its car industry: with tough love.
GM and Chrysler were reborn in a $60bn-plus bankruptcy and restructuring supported by US and Canadian taxpayers.
Mr Varin said last week he was aware that Peugeot's plant closure and job cuts could cause “shock and emotion”.
France's automotive industry is a source of national pride – a flagship for the country's manufacturing expertise. It is also a big employer: the government estimates that about 10 per cent of the national workforce is linked to the industry.
So it is understandable that politicians are dismayed when a big car factory has to close.
They accuse the car sector of ingratitude for €4bn of public funds that kept them in business after the banking crisis in 2009.
President François Hollande now calls Peugeot's job cuts “unacceptable”.
But Paris is slowly killing Peugeot and Renault with its protective kindness.
In fact, Peugeot's move to shutter Aulnay is a drop in the ocean for a European industry that has seen only three plants close in recent years.
France's carmakers have 40 per cent more capacity than they need.
Aulnay accounts for just a tenth of this.
France should, as the US did in 2009, help carmakers cut jobs and close plants to ensure their long-term survival, not scold them for cutting back.
Paris is mulling more aid for carmakers; any public money would best be used to help them to downsize.
Dismissing a single French autoworker, according to one estimate, costs €150,000.
No wonder Peugeot is giving such pessimistic guidance on cash.
Politicians and unions in France (and Germany, where Opel and Ford have plants) need to shed the zero-sum assumption that every lost car job vanishes for good.
On the contrary, if Renault and Peugeot are allowed to reduce costly European operations with a limited future and use the savings to expand overseas, there will be more research, design and other high-value added jobs back home.
This would reduce the risk of calls on the public purse to support uncompetitive plants.
The US sector, where efficient plants are hiring again, is an object lesson in the virtues of tough love.
The European Union has been worryingly absent in this growing crisis.
Overcapacity in car production is a European phenomenon, which requires a co-ordinated European solution.
In trade, the EU has managed to overcome national jealousies for the common good;
Brussels needs to show leadership to achieve the same for car manufacturing.
But carmakers too need to make a stronger and more positive case, to show how a frightened and confused public can benefit from a smaller but stronger car sector.