For many years, the commodities sector was an economic backwater.
No longer.
The proposed flotation of Glencore, valuing the company at up to $73bn, is a sign of how capital is flooding back into the sector.
But the excitement generated by soaring commodity prices is tempered by concern.
A prolonged surge in demand for raw materials has fuelled fears about commodity-driven inflation.
Glencore added another worry this week, when it revealed its share in a number of raw materials markets.
Its dominance is far greater than thought – and that is bad news for competition.
In 2010, the trader controlled 60 per cent of the third-party market for zinc and half the market for zinc concentrates and copper; for lead, the figure was 45 per cent and for alumina, 38.
True, the third-party market is only a small part of the overall market for commodities – most trades are done directly between industrial consumers and producers.
But such a concentration of resources in the hands of one organisation still matters because the spot prices the third-party market sets are used as a reference in other transactions.
The good thing about Glencore's decision to go public is that this information is now in the public domain.
Less welcome, however, is the financial heft that will result from its initial public offering, which will allow the company to vertically integrate through acquisitions, becoming a bigger producer in markets in which it trades.
This would also accentuate concentration in trading markets.
The recent surge in commodity prices has raised the barrier to entry in commodities trading.
Ten years ago, it might have cost $10m to fill an oil tanker. Today, the figure is as much as 12 times as high.
This makes an oligopolistic market structure likely.
There is not much individual countries can do to combat these problems – nor do they have the incentives to do so.
Most physical trading of commodities takes place away from exchanges, making regulation difficult.
And the cost of monopolistic markets is borne by consumers the world over, which makes the negative side-effects of domestic consolidations easier for governments to ignore, especially if the companies involved offer them the right incentives.
This means that supranational action is needed.
Collating better statistics about global commodities trading would be an improvement on the current situation.
There is no global regulator capable of counterbalancing the market power that private companies accumulate. But that is no reason not to pay attention to what is happening in these markets.
The Group of 20 is the obvious forum for this.
If policymakers leave commodities trading unattended, this erstwhile backwater could one day become a sea of economic troubles.