Ben Bernanke disappointed those who hoped his speech at the central bankers' conference in Jackson Hole would signal a fresh round of quantitative easing.
The US Federal Reserve chairman ruled nothing out, however.
He acknowledged the recent run of gloomy economic news, and said the next meeting of the Fed's policymaking committee would take an extra day to discuss the “merits and costs” of monetary stimulus.
Meanwhile, he called on Congress to improve its fiscal policy and attend to issues that lie outside the Fed's purview.
Mr Bernanke is right that the Fed cannot carry the whole burden of economic policy.
The reason is not that there are no monetary policy tools left.
As Mr Bernanke has often stressed, the Fed can apply more stimulus if need be, even with interest rates close to zero – most directly through asset purchases, but also by changing the maturity structure of its asset portfolio and in other ways.
But the chairman must contend with dissenting opinions on the federal open market committee.
Some of his colleagues worry about rising inflation – with little reason.
The Fed also faces criticism from some on Capitol Hill and beyond.
The recent attack on Mr Bernanke by Rick Perry, the front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination, is the most notorious example, but far from the only one.
Judging monetary conditions is not the only challenge for US economic policy.
When budget-cutting resumes next month, undue zeal to curb short-term public spending could add to the fiscal contraction under way as the stimulus measures of 2009 and 2010 fade out.
At the same time, little has been done to reassure businesses and consumers that the country's long-term fiscal problems – driven by an ageing population and rising health-care costs – will be solved.
Moderation in the short term and discipline in the long term should be the watchwords for fiscal policy.
If that balance could be got right, the pressure on monetary policy would ease.
Rather daringly, Mr Bernanke called not just for better fiscal policy, but for a better fiscal-policy process, with “clear and transparent budget goals, together with budget mechanisms to establish the credibility of those goals”.
Along with tax and entitlement reform, this is a theme that many US fiscal-policy experts are emphasising.
It is one that Barack Obama should take up in the economic-policy speech he has promised to make in early September.