Some Chinese media have derived understandable mirth from the spectacle of a US “dissident”, former intelligence contractor Edward Snowden, fleeing to China for protection. There is indeed an irony about Mr Snowden taking details of what he portrays as an Orwellian exercise in information gathering in the US to the Mother of all Big Brothers. Doubtless there will be efforts by China's state-controlled media to equate Mr Snowden's revelations with actions by Chinese dissidents to damage China's national interest. The implication is that China should be left to deal with its troublemakers as the US deals with its. This would be a faulty conclusion. Even if Mr Snowden is eventually extradited, he will be protected by a constitution that places enormous store in freedom of expression. The US is not above reproach. Accusations by the UN rapporteur of cruel and degrading treatment meted out to Bradley Manning, the US soldier who gave classified documents to WikiLeaks, are cause for concern. Still, China, where laws are subservient to the party's requirements, is a million miles away from offering the protection afforded to US citizens. At this month's US-China summit, President Barack Obama restrained from publicly hectoring Xi Jinping, his counterpart, on human rights. That is fine so far as it goes. China craves respect and lecturing can backfire. But the world should be under no illusions about the still-lousy state of Chinese human rights and the US should not be shy about reminding it. According to Human Rights Watch, Beijing continues to place arbitrary curbs on freedom of expression and to enforce repressive policies in Tibet, Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia. Human rights defenders face police harassment or “re-education through labour”, a system yet to be reformed. The case of Liu Xiaobo, the Nobel Peace Prize winner, is telling. His “crime” is to have been co-author of Charter 08, a manifesto urging democracy and human rights. For that he received an 11-year sentence. His wife, Liu Xia, has been put under house arrest and her brother was last week jailed for alleged fraud. In a letter, Mrs Liu protested against the verdict and said she had been given no explanation for her own detention. “Perhaps in this country being the wife of Liu Xiaobo is a kind of crime,” she said. If China wants to be seen as a great nation, it should stop persecuting people for expressing their views. Until then, it is in no position to gloat over Mr Snowden.