Friends and opponents of President Barack Obama agree that 2013 has been his worst year since he took office.
Many fear the next three years will be just as disappointing.
The glow of Mr Obama's re-election quickly faded in January and was replaced by the grim cycle of one emergency after another, from the fiscal showdowns with Republicans to the rolling crisis over Edward Snowden's spying revelations.
The president's second term is listing. Much of the damage has been self-inflicted.
The coming year will be his best chance to set things right.
Firing underperformers should be part of any overhaul.
More important still, Mr Obama needs to get a tight grip on his administration – in a way that leaves no one in any doubt.
In the absence of that, he faces the spectre of becoming the longest-running lame duck president in modern US history.
Mr Obama's chief weaknesses have long been apparent. These include a tendency to substitute speeches for policy, ill-concealed disdain for routine Washington socialising, over-reliance on election consultants and a reluctance to go beyond his small inner circle for advice.
Each of these has been visible in the crises that have dogged 2013.
Mr Obama's sudden decision last August to seek Congress's approval to strike Syria was taken without consulting John Kerry, the secretary of state, Chuck Hagel, the Pentagon chief, or Joe Biden, his vice-president.
Between them they had almost a century's worth of experience on Capitol Hill.
Mr Obama took his decision following a meeting of mostly inexperienced staffers.
Even then, none agreed with the panicked about-turn.
As luck would have it, Vladimir Putin rescued him with a plan of his own.
Even more troubling is Mr Obama's mishandling of the rollout of “Obamacare” since healthcare reform is supposed to be his central legacy.
With more than three years to plan for last October's launch, his staff still managed to mess it up badly.
Many of the glitches have now been fixed – and the exchange is now close to functioning as it should.
But 2014 will present equally big challenges.
Will people get the insurance they signed up for?
Will enough of the young and healthy enrol?
Will the Internal Revenue Service's systems be smoothly integrated at the back end?
Few are confident Mr Obama will get it right.
Unless he can hold officials accountable, the glitches look likely to keep recurring.
It is troubling that no one has yet been sacked for the breakdowns.
Similar weaknesses could also be seen in the White House's botched handling of Lawrence Summers' planned nomination to replace Ben Bernanke at the US Federal Reserve and its inability to pass even the lightest of gun- control bills after last year's massacre of 20 children in Sandy Hook.
The list goes on.
But the remedies do not change.