With only a few months left before his term as director-general of the World Trade Organisation ends, Pascal Lamy has spoken his mind about the rising threat of protectionism.
On Wednesday he said that such risks “may be greater now than at any time since the start of the crisis”.
This is an important warning, which governments would be wrong to dismiss.
Mr Lamy was commenting on a string of gloomy data, showing that world trade grew just 2 per cent in 2012, the second-worst performance since records began in 1981.
Trade flows are expected to rise faster this year, but only by 3.3 per cent. This is below the average for the past two decades, which has stood at 5.3 per cent.
Weak growth, especially in the developed world, is the main culprit.
The economic malaise in Europe, which accounts for 32 per cent of global imports, means that consumers and businesses are cutting back on foreign goods and services.
Import growth in emerging markets is strong, but their exports are constrained by weak demand in the EU and Japan.
A dangerous consequence of this prolonged economic weakness is the return of protectionism.
So far, the world has avoided the destructive beggar-thy-neighbour policies of the Great Depression.
But as developing economies struggle with ever fewer export opportunities and as developed countries run short of policy ammunition, calls for tariff increases, export restrictions and skewed regulatory changes are becoming harder to resist.
Last June, Global Trade Alert, a monitoring group, reported that protectionist policies are on the rise.
The belief that protectionism can preserve jobs is an illusion.
Shielding a sector from more efficient foreign competitors comes at the expense of other domestic businesses, which are denied access to cheaper goods.
Trade restrictions introduced during a bust are rarely temporary.
The 1930s experience shows that once these policies are introduced, they are politically difficult to reverse.
Trade is an engine – not a brake – of economic growth.
The trouble is that governments across the world are doing too little to promote it.
Multilateral negotiations have died with the last ministerial meeting of the Doha round in 2008.
A WTO conference is scheduled for December in Bali, Indonesia, but Mr Lamy has warned that the negotiations are behind schedule.
Bilateral agreements are a poor substitute for multilateral deals, since they risk displacing beneficial trade with third parties.
But at present this looks like the most promising framework.
The EU and the US have launched talks aimed, in particular, at overcoming non-tariff barriers, such as health and safety rules.
A trade deal between the EU and Japan is also on the cards, but European carmakers and Japanese farmers are sternly opposed.
At a time when developed economies are running short of quick economic fixes, trade is the rare low-hanging fruit.
Governments should grasp the prize rather than retreat into protectionism.