At the end of the first world war Marshal Foch famously observed that the Versailles treaty would bring not peace but “an armistice for 20 years”.
Wednesday night's last-gasp deal in the US Senate to end the government shutdown and avert collision with the debt ceiling has a similar flavour.
While the deal might, of course, mark a genuine reset in relations between the White House and Congress, it might also – as with Versailles – be little more than a temporary interruption in hostilities.
At least we shall not have long to find out. The armistice this time will run not for 20 years – but for less than 20 weeks.
The first reaction to the deal is, inevitably, one of relief.
It eases for now rising market neurosis over the threat posed by the stand-off to the full faith and credit of the United States.
The White House emerges from the fray with its red lines intact.
President Barack Obama has stuck to his refusal to bargain over any increase in the debt ceiling.
There has been no quid pro quo on the budget.
Faced with collapsing ratings in the opinion polls, the Republicans have been forced to blink.
There is no reason, however, to detect much of a change in underlying attitudes within the Grand Old Party.
While urging his colleagues to support the truce in the House of Representatives, John Boehner, the Republican speaker, talked about continuing the fight against the Affordable Care Act in the coming months, although he said this would focus on “aggressive oversight” and “smart targeted strikes”.
Whatever this is, it is not the language of peace and reconciliation.
Many of Mr Boehner's colleagues, not least Ted Cruz, the Texas senator who fired the first shot with his 21-hour filibuster, plan a far more aggressive battle against “Obamacare”.
Their surging popularity with the Tea Party gives them every incentive to keep the war going.
They are also benefiting financially.
Mr Cruz doubled his fundraising to more than $1m in the third quarter.
For the majority of Republican lawmakers who are neither Tea Party supporters nor moderates, the temptation will be to stay close to Mr Cruz.
Moreover, almost two-thirds of House Republicans and roughly 40 per cent of Republican senators voted against Wednesday night's bill to end the crisis – an implicit endorsement of default.
All of which augurs badly for a big fiscal deal, which would need to include some tax increases – or elimination of tax loopholes – to gain Democratic support.
On Wednesday night Mr Obama revived talk of a grand bargain that would include corporate tax reform and reining in medical and retirement costs for pensioners.
Many Republicans would leap at the chance to lower headline rates and curb entitlements budgets.
But their comrades in the Tea Party continue to insist that all the revenues from closing tax loopholes should fund lower rates.
Having just led a charge in which they lost much and gained nothing, such inflexibility is self-defeating.
Unless they show a new willingness to compromise, Republicans could quickly find themselves back in the same no-man's land.
Mr Obama's need for a big deal is also clear.
In this crisis, the president has been far more sinned against than sinner.
But it is his duty to rise above the politics.
The temptation will be to punish Mr Boehner for having taken this right up to the brink. Mr Obama should resist it.
Republicans have already been heavily punished in the polls. Rubbing their noses in it would kill the already slim prospects for a grand bargain and torpedo hopes for reviving immigration reform and replacing the sequestration budget cuts with something more thoughtful.
The coming three months may well be Mr Obama's last best chance to build a second-term legacy.
Now is his chance to help to clear the air.
Americans must now hold their breath to see whether their politicians can conjure more statesmanship ahead of the next deadlines in this continuing struggle.
Another shutdown looms on January 15 and a collision with the debt ceiling is again possible in early February.
Against that is the chance, albeit slim, that cooler heads will take control of the agenda.
In the meantime, however, it is worth stressing the costs of this last round of hostilities.
Nearly a million federal employees have been paid for work that they did not do. The Asian trade pact has been allowed to stall, with the result that China is now pursuing a rival deal. And the US has been placed on credit watch with its reputation badly tarnished.
No Republican could possibly count this as a victory.