Resource nationalism is a phenomenon that has troubled American oil companies in many parts of the world, from Venezuela to Russia.
They are not used to being confronted by it at home.
Yet that is what is happening now over plans to export liquefied natural gas from the US.
When the FT reported last week that ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips and BP were working towards a preliminary agreement on a $40bn-plus project to export LNG from Alaska to Asia, Ed Markey, a Democratic Congressman from Massachusetts, immediately denounced it as “a threat to American manufacturers, farmers and families”.
Mr Markey is often outside the mainstream of US politics.
On the issue of LNG exports, though, he has a wide range of allies, including both environmental campaigners and some businesses.
The case for reserving American gas for American buyers is vaporous, however.
Industrial energy users are calling for increased scrutiny of LNG exports, if not yet an outright ban, because they worry about losing the competitive advantage of low gas prices created by the US shale boom.
Yet while exports would probably drive up prices somewhat, the American advantage is so great – Asian LNG costs seven times as much as gas in the US – it could survive the increase quite comfortably.
In the long term, the main factor for prices will be production costs.
Changes in demand will have a greater effect on the volume supplied than on the price.
If the logic of restricting exports from the “lower 48” states is questionable, the argument for doing so in Alaska is raging nonsense.
Gas on Alaska's North Slope is, in effect, valueless today because it has no route to market.
The solution favoured by Mr Markey, a pipeline connection to the rest of the US, flies in the face of the commercial realities of low prices.
The LNG project still faces many hurdles, but it is the only idea that could make financial sense.
There are still large uncertainties over global gas markets, including the true size of the recoverable resource in the US, and the speed at which China will develop its own shale reserves.
The government cannot be expected to do any better at addressing those questions than the private sector.
The US administration should resist calls to get in the way of LNG exports.
In the case of the Alaska project, an obvious benefit to the economy and to world energy supplies, it should see if there is anything it can do to help.