Another US growth number.
Another stifled round of applause.
At 1.7 per cent, US gross domestic product growth in the three months to June was higher than many analysts had feared.
Yet what the statistics God gives he also taketh away.
In the same announcement, GDP growth for the first quarter was revised down to 1.1 per cent (from 1.8 per cent).
Add in the negligible number from the last quarter of 2012 and the US has grown just 0.9 per cent on an annualised basis over the past nine months.
Given the fiscal drag from the “sequestration” earlier this year, this is hardly surprising.
The impact of the cuts ought to taper off in the next year.
But there is plenty of scope for Washington to alter US growth expectations in either direction.
Unfortunately, downwards seems more likely.
On the upside, President Barack Obama unveiled a sensible proposal on Tuesday to overhaul the Byzantine US corporate tax system.
While modest – and excluding personal income taxes – Mr Obama's mini “grand bargain” would at least row in the right direction.
Eliminating loopholes and reducing the rate of corporation tax to 28 per cent could help bring the US investment drought to an end.
Mr Obama's plan to spend whatever the one-off revenue gain on infrastructure and worker training also makes sense.
On Tuesday the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said the sequestration will cost 900,000 jobs and 0.7 per cent in GDP growth in the next year if it stays in place.
Mr Obama's plan would counteract that.
Better still if he could persuade Congress to replace the sequestration with something more sensible.
Alas, Congress is no closer to that than before.
The Republican leadership's reaction to Mr Obama's proposal – and hostility to any suggestion of higher tax revenues – suggests the two may even be drifting further apart.
All things being equal, the housing- and consumer-led US recovery ought to start picking up speed in 2014.
But that depends on Congress doing no harm.
In September, it must agree on a budget for the next US fiscal year.
If it fails, there could be another government shutdown crisis.
Ditto for the looming expiry of the US sovereign debt ceiling, which is likely by November.
If either grenade went off, 2014 could end up being another sub-par year.
A grand bargain may still be a remote prospect.
But at the very least, Washington must not add to the damage it has already done.