Until now, Athens and its eurozone partners have been like bickering passengers on the same sinking boat.
Grudging co-operation has been sustained by fear that if Greece runs out of money, it will drag the rest of Europe down with it.
But an opportunity has emerged to detach the responsibilities of the Greeks from those of the eurozone as a whole.
It should be grasped.
Athens will run out of cash in early October if the next tranche of the eurozone-International Monetary Fund rescue loan is not disbursed.
But no payments are due on Greek sovereign bonds until December.
Domestic banks will no doubt roll over the small amounts of short-term treasury bills maturing in coming months.
The victims of Athens' empty coffers will be not bond markets but Greek public sector employees or benefit claimants.
Responsibility for them rests with their own government only.
The troika can credibly threaten to withhold aid for three months.
Unless Athens makes good on its promises, that is what it should do.
If the Greek state stops paying salaries and pensions, that is a tragedy – but one of Athens' own making, which others should not take it upon themselves to prevent.
Not just because they can afford to – Greek middle class penury will not trigger a financial market meltdown – but because it could finally force the Greek political class to face the truth.
The truth is that, far from being “all in this together”, the Greeks are divided into those who benefit from the state's dysfunction – in protected and overpaid closed professions, public sector jobs, or sectors controlled by abusive unions – and the majority of outsiders who have to pay the cost of those privileges, and now bear the brunt of long-delayed austerity.
Greece's pain is not imposed from outside but grows within its body politic.
Taking on these special interests is possible, and Athens has promised the rescuers to do so.
It would bring big economic benefits over time by unlocking some sources of growth and getting more for less public spending.
But the government has shied away from measures to wrest the economy away from the grip of the privileged few, in contrast with drastic if insufficient action on the fiscal deficit.
Redirecting popular indignation where it belongs – with those who exploit a broken system – would be politically smart, too.
Greece can only be rescued by a leader who owns up to this conflict – and sides with the outsiders.
A failure to pay the state's dues just might force a showdown.
When politicians lack courage, the best help is a prod.