The west has long turned a blind eye to India's nuclear weapons programme.
But with the testing of a long-range missile capable of striking Beijing and Shanghai it is no longer possible to ignore New Delhi's ambitions.
The Agni V – named for the Hindu god of fire – has been built to travel more than 5,000km while carrying a 1.5 tonne nuclear warhead.
India now joins an elite group of nations capable of deploying intercontinental ballistic missiles.
This would have made it a nuclear power to be reckoned with, even without the commissioning earlier this month of a second atomic submarine.
India's nuclear build-up marks a significant strategic shift in the region.
For decades its missiles have been designed with Pakistan in mind.
Today relations with its old enemy are improving and the focus of tensions is shifting eastward.
China's accelerated build-up of military infrastructure across south Asia – including along the disputed Himalayan border – has drawn attention to the relatively poor state of India's defences.
With the long-range missile, India now has a credible second-strike capability.
This will raise concerns in the international community, given that India steadfastly refuses to sign the nuclear non-proliferation treaty.
But ever since Washington granted India access to civil nuclear technology in 2008, the treaty's force has been weakened.
In fact, India's build-up is being watched with a benign eye by those who see it as a useful counterweight to China's rising military power in south Asia.
This is bolstered by New Delhi's insistence that it would never be the aggressor.
Its respectable record on proliferation adds confidence that India is an exception among those who have also refused to sign the treaty.
Now that India is a member of the long-range missile club, it makes sense to step up pressure over its refusal to sign the NPT.
Yet the unfortunate truth is that the stance is unlikely to change.
Domestic opposition is entrenched.
But the international community could take some useful first steps to bring India in line with the treaty's aims.
New Delhi has already implemented safeguards that qualify it for membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group and the Missile Technology Control Regime.
If the treaty is a step too far, then membership of these bodies is the next best option.
It is better to have India halfway in the non-proliferation community than outside.