Jean-Jacques Rousseau's assertion that citizens must be forced to be free has been characterised as a seed of tyranny.
Things are not so bad with the eurozone's own Rousseauvian paradox: forcing creditors voluntarily to sign up for losses on Greek sovereign debt.
The damage is still significant.
By putting in doubt the viability of the sovereign credit default swap market, leaders are making the debt crisis worse.
The “haircut” on Athens' obligations was designed so as to preserve the eurozone's (unnecessary) conceit that none of its sovereigns could default.
It was naive to think a distressed debt exchange could ever escape a rating downgrade.
But by insisting that bondholders participate “voluntarily”, leaders try hard to avoid a “credit event” – a ruling by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association that CDS on Greek debt are to pay out.
They seem to have got their way: ISDA indicates that CDS will not be triggered by a voluntary debt swap, even if it writes the bonds' values down by half.
As a result, CDS have become less credible hedges against losses.
There is no end to reasons why this is bad.
Although it is hard to know for sure, it seems that European banks are net buyers of CDS protection, not issuers of it.
When banks' exposure to peripheral debt is threatening a cardiac arrest in the funding market, running roughshod through their hedges simply weakens them further.
It also contributes to contagion.
By working so hard to avoid CDS paying out on Greek debt, policymakers sow fear about whether CDS on, say, Spain or Italy would pay out if it came to it.
This fear is at least partly behind the recent rise in yields across the eurozone.
The only rationale for punishing buyers of CDS protection is the blame policymakers unjustifiably try to pin on them for the crisis.
As it happens, CDS balances are tiny: net exposures to Greek sovereign CDS are €3bn, a trifle next to Athens' €350bn of debt.
The deeper point is that CDS help to shift risk to those who want it and away from those, such as banks, who should stay clear.
Inexplicably, leaders want to limit rather than expand this transfer of risk.
Worst of all, these leaders are shooting themselves in the foot.
Their active subversion of sovereign CDS must be feeding investor scepticism of their plan to use the eurozone rescue fund for insurance of troubled sovereign debt.
It is possible to exploit markets for the public benefit – as with a Greek debt swap to capture market discounts.
But subverting the CDS market altogether benefits no one.