When people fret that the US is becoming a reluctant superpower, they do not normally think of the International Monetary Fund.
Yet there are few better examples of America absent-mindedly undercutting itself than Capitol Hill's refusal to wave through its new IMF quota.
The case for passing a bill that would embed IMF governance reforms initiated by successive US administrations – Republican and Democratic – is open and shut.
Failure to do so before next month's annual IMF and World Bank spring meetings would almost certainly delay any prospect of it happening until 2015.
That would further erode US leadership among its G20 partners.
The window is very narrow.
Republicans need to step off their isolationist hobby horse.
And President Barack Obama's administration must find a way of convincing them to do so.
The case is overwhelming.
Negotiated in 2008 by the Bush administration and updated in 2010 by Mr Obama, the reforms modernise the IMF to take account of rapid changes in the global economy.
The rich club of developed economies, principally in Europe, will have their equity and voting shares diluted from about 60 per cent to 57 per cent, while the shares of the large emerging markets, notably China, India and Indonesia, will rise commensurately.
It is an essential first step to maintain the IMF's legitimacy – and firepower – in a volatile world.
None of this will happen until the US has approved its new quota, which comes to about $63bn on paper but would amount to only $315m in practice since it would count against former loans.
The US will retain its veto and see its quota shares drop marginally from 17.7 per cent to 17.4 per cent.
In other words, it will cost the US next to nothing in either money or control.
Alas, many Republicans do not see it that way.
Some are opposed to approving any taxpayer dollars for an organisation they caricature as bailing out spendthrift Mediterranean countries.
Others want to trade their approval of the US quota increase for a deal to drop an Internal Revenue Service investigation into non-profit organisations funded by billionaires, such as the Koch Brothers.
Both arguments are wrong-headed.
The IMF is the first line of defence of a global capitalist system that has been created in America's image.
Depriving it of the resources to combat future global market crises would directly undercut the US national interest.
It would also spur developing countries to strengthen regional alternatives to the fund, such as the Chiang Mai initiative in Asia.
Meanwhile, the IRS investigation into politicised charities has nothing to do with the IMF, regardless of its merits.
Senior Republicans, such as John McCain, have forcefully pointed this out.
Others must be made to see the folly of their ways.
The White House has hardly been doing the case full justice.
Having failed in the past four years to make a sustained argument on Capitol Hill for the IMF deal, the Obama administration is now linking it to a bill that would authorise a $1bn loan guarantee for Ukraine.
The two have nothing to do with each other.
The White House clearly hopes it can embarrass Republicans into voting for the IMF package by linking it to the need to stand up to Vladimir Putin.
In practice, its manoeuvre looks likely to backfire.
At a meeting of G20 finance ministers in Sydney last month, Jack Lew, the US Treasury secretary, got an earful about Washington's failure to honour its obligations.
Mr Lew needs to remind lawmakers that a world in which countries such as China are increasingly acting outside of the IMF, or other global bodies, is one that could drift beyond US control.
It can offer nothing but downside for America and its allies.