North Korea is a state whose internal workings are almost impossible for outsiders to comprehend.
There has been no better example of this in recent times than the execution last week of Jang Song Thaek, the uncle and righthand man of Kim Jong Un, the country's young dictator.
The Pyongyang regime is one that tends to settle political scores in quietly orchestrated removals and fuzzy reshuffles.
The purging of Jang was different.
He was dramatically removed from a special party session by armed guards and almost immediately put to death.
There is no firm explanation as to why the state's number two figure was eliminated.
The regime declared that he was executed for attempting to carry out a coup.
Some outside analysts play this down and suggest he is a scapegoat for recent economic failures.
Whatever the truth, his execution prompts some deeper questions.
Is this an act that strengthens North Korea's 30-year-old leader?
Or does it herald the start of a destabilising power struggle at the top?
Those who believe Jang's demise stabilises the regime see it as a natural step in Mr Kim's assertion of power.
They say he is replacing an older generation of officials with new ones who will owe their positions to him.
Others say, however, that this move rekindles fears of instability in the nuclear-armed state.
They argue that after destroying someone as prominent as Jang, the regime must go on to eliminate thousands of his personal followers.
As it conducts these purges, the regime will need to rally public support.
It may use a tactic employed in the past – taking aggressive action against South Korea.
Watching events unfold, the US and China are deadlocked.
The US is using diplomatic isolation and economic sanctions to force Pyongyang to suspend its nuclear programme.
China, meanwhile, is reluctant to take any coercive action that will destabilise North Korea.
China does not perceive Pyongyang's nuclear programme as an immediate threat.
It regards the US as a bigger geostrategic challenge, especially when tension is so high with Japan.
For years, China's policy has been to manage North Korea's wayward behaviour so that there is no overreaction by the US or by South Korea.
Thus far, Beijing's policy has worked.
But a major political upheaval in Pyongyang may now be taking place.
If so, Beijing's management of its North Korean satellite will soon be tested once again.