Pakistan's state and society face a double threat: that of a disintegration of order under the pressure of jihadist violence, and that of economic collapse.
While it offers only a glimmer of hope, the news that Islamabad and Delhi are preparing to liberalise trade between each other could not be more timely.
Pakistan's economic and political woes are two sides of the same malign coin.
A breakdown in security in swaths of the country – the outcome of Islamabad's lethal cultivation of jihadism to counter New Delhi's presence in Kashmir – combines with dire infrastructure and bureaucratic mismanagement to discourage economic activity.
A failure to realise people's material aspirations in turn provides violent groups with the best recruitment drive they could hope for.
Solutions to Pakistan's predicament must similarly address both the politics and the economics.
On both dimensions, greater and freer trade with India can only be a good thing.
On the economic merits alone, a trade deal is long overdue.
At just $3bn, the two countries' bilateral trade flow amounts to one-sixth of 1 per cent of their combined economic output (and the same again in illicit flows).
Pakistan stands to reap the greater benefits: while per capita production is similar in the two, Pakistan's growth has lagged behind India's for two decades.
Closer trade ties are strategically important, too.
The greater contact that comes with trade, both at official levels and between the two peoples, may do its little bit to alleviate the distrust that sustains tensions in the neighbourhood – provided the overture does in fact lead to concrete results.
There are two reasons why it might.
One is that on both sides there is a constituency favouring détente.
Talks on a comprehensive deal over Kashmir, blessed by the top leadership in both countries – were close to success as late as five years ago.
Another is Pakistan's alertness to the danger of relying excessively on China, that other mega-state.
Like other south Asian governments, Islamabad has so far indulged Beijing's “string of pearls” strategy of port construction.
It no doubt sees the need for a balance of regional relationships.
One must be realistic.
Even a successful trade initiative will have only limited impact.
And history suggests that any serious progress on improving relations will be sabotaged before it succeeds, just as the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks ended the Kashmir talks.
There is, however, no good alternative. The trade deal must be concluded – as a first step of many.