The US-backed accords that brought a halt to half a century of intermittent civil war between north and south Sudan envisaged separation as a last resort.
Six years later it has come to that: the south becomes independent on Saturday.
No doubt it will be a day of celebration for southern Sudanese, who voted overwhelmingly to turn their back on their northern oppressors.
But the break-up of the country provides no guarantee that the future on either side of the border will be better.
Rather, there is every possibility that from the failed state that spawned Africa's longest civil war will be born two failed states, each containing the seeds of future conflicts.
The south, alone the size of Nigeria, has barely 100km of paved road.
It lacks most of the essentials of statehood, and already faces rebellion from within its midst.
Since the Sudan People's Liberation Movement began governing autonomously, the former rebels have shown scant commitment to building institutions and services or opening up the political space.
Corruption is endemic.
The north, too, carries the disease that led to civil war – a centralised administration dominated by a small Arab minority that governs with an iron fist.
If there is no change at the centre, Khartoum will no doubt face fresh rebellions on its peripheries, further fragment- ing what was Africa's largest state.
The signs are inauspicious.
Fight- ing between government forces and militias sympathetic to the south has driven hundreds of thousands from their homes in disputed border regions.
The violence has held up negotiations on issues central to future relations between the two states such as rights to citizenship, external debt and cross border trade.
Most worryingly, only days from partition, there is no agreement on sharing revenues from oil, two-thirds of which is in the south but which is exported through pipelines in the north.
It is in the interests of both sides to reach agreement on this and prevent a disruption to production that would have disastrous consequences for both oil-dependent economies.
This might allow Khartoum to wean itself off southern oil but expect greater control by the south down the line.
For the south, it is a question of paying for independence with blood or money.
Since the 2005 peace agreement was signed, the west, notably Washington has squandered much of the leverage it once had in Khartoum with empty promises and empty threats.
It is a sign of the times that Beijing now has a stronger hand – as well as a stronger interest in ensuring that the oil flows, much of it to China.
Through discreet diplomacy, China has in the past helped temper hard-line tendencies in Khartoum.
It now has clout in the south too, where it is negotiating multi-billion dollar loans.
Western countries have a continued responsibility to see through a peaceful partition, having overseen the peace agreement that foresaw a possible break-up.
But China should be encouraged to use its capital to persuade both sides to be reasonable in the tense months ahead.