The news that Pakistan allowed China access to remnants of the top secret US stealth helicopter downed in the raid to kill Osama bin Laden is a sign of the deep mistrust between Islamabad and Washington.
While the incident may not mark a definitive breach, it does signal a further downward spiral in relations that both sides need to contain.
As provocative as Pakistan's move may seem, its military significance is uncertain.
How useful the exercise was for China depends not just on the state of the remnants, but also on whether anything it learned matched gaps in its knowledge of stealth technology. This is not rudimentary:
Robert Gates, the then defence secretary, found his visit to China in January overshadowed by the first test flight of China's own J-20 stealth fighter.
US-Pakistani relations have been fraying for some time.
The most dramatic deterioration occurred after the bin Laden raid, which was a humiliation both for Pakistan's military and for its civilian leaders.
But even before this, ties were strained: the jailing in February of a CIA contractor who killed two armed Pakistanis in Lahore sparked a tit-for-tat between the countries' security services.
The White House has responded to the bilateral chill by making security aid contingent on Pakistani co-operation with American efforts in the region against al-Qaeda and its ilk.
This frustration is understandable.
Since 2001, the US has given Islamabad more than $20bn in aid, yet Pakistan's security services have neither cut their links to jihadi groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Haqqani network in north Waziristan, nor ceased to meddle in Afghanistan.
Yet despite the frustrations, the US is condemned to work with Pakistan.
The fragile, nuclear-armed state remains crucial to a number of US strategic interests, ranging from ensuring some form of stability in Afghanistan after foreign troops leave in 2014, to preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
In this context, the US must do what it can to bolster the parts of the Pakistani state – its civilian leadership – with which it has the best chance of doing business.
That means acknowledging Pakistan's concerns about Indian activities in Afghanistan;
and pushing for a resolution to the festering conflict in Kashmir that keeps India and Pakistan at each other's throats, and the securocrats in control in Islamabad.
In the meantime, the US will have to get used to a proud Pakistan using China to tweak its nose.