Ancient Greece invented democracy.
But modern Greece is in danger of giving democracy a bad name.
Squabbling by rival politicians in Athens threatens to escalate the European debt crisis, with grave consequences for Greece, the European Union and the world economy as a whole.
To avert this, it is crucial that Greek politicians bury their differences – if only for a few months – so that they can form a national unity government that will back the latest rescue package from the European Union.
It should be remembered that while the deal agreed a couple of weeks ago will involve more austerity in Greece, it also entails massive loans to the country and a 50 per cent write-down of Greek debt held by private bondholders – and therefore some badly needed partial relief from the crushing burden of debt.
If the Greek parliament fails, nonetheless, to approve this deal – the promised billions from Europe will not arrive in December.
At that point the Greek state could well be unable to pay salaries and pensions and Greece would be on the brink of a disorderly default.
Both main parties in Greece share some of the blame for the current political mess.
Last week's promise by George Papandreou, the Greek prime minister, to hold a referendum on the bail-out deal confused the markets and Greece's European partners – and was swiftly withdrawn.
Now it is Antonis Samaras, the leader of the main conservative opposition party, who is playing the spoiler – by demanding snap general elections before agreeing to the bail-out deal.
Both Mr Papandreou and Mr Samaras deserve some sympathy.
The urge to secure a mandate from the Greek people is understandable – given the level of economic pain that the country is going through.
A coalition government based around the two main centre parties also risks allowing the political extremes to become the repository for the rage and despair that further austerity is likely to provoke.
Clearly, at some point, ordinary Greeks will need to have their say on the country's current plight.
But now – with a crucial bail-out package at stake – is not the time to go to the voters.
Even the voters themselves seem to agree with that.
Opinion polls show much stronger support for the formation of a coalition government than for holding snap elections now.
Greek politicians should listen to the people and concentrate on governing – rather than campaigning and jostling for office.