For the first time in modern history, an Arab despot is being held to account by his own people.
From a hospital bed in a courtroom cage, Hosni Mubarak, the Egyptian dictator ousted in February's popular uprising, pleaded not guilty to charges of conspiring to kill protesters and abusing his powers for personal gain.
On trial with him are his sons, Alaa and Gamal, Habib al-Adly, the ex-interior minister, and six former security officials.
In a region where an untouchable elite had until six months ago been protected by a cloak of impunity, this is a remarkable turnaround.
Mr Mubarak has much to answer for.
Not only were 850 protesters killed in the demonstrations that led to his departure.
For three suffocating decades, he presided over a country in which draconian state-of-emergency laws were routinely used to justify killings and torture;
and in which millions were consigned to penury and economic hopelessness while a kleptocratic elite gorged itself on Egypt's national wealth.
The catharsis of seeing Mr Mubarak forced to account for this grim past is the least the victims deserve.
Egypt's interim leadership faced heavy external pressure not to try Mr Mubarak. That the fallen pharaoh has been forced to stand trial sends an unambiguous message – not only to those still risking their lives in the pursuit of freedom, but also to the other Arab autocrats who oppress them.
Western countries that spent 30 years turning a blind eye to Mr Mubarak's abuses may feel uncomfortable watching a former ally on trial but they must also recognise their complicity.
Having chosen to deal with Mr Mubarak through judicial means, Egypt's authorities must now ensure that the trial observes due process.
If run properly, the trial could be an important step towards achieving the justice and dignity the protesters demand.
If, however, the proceedings are allowed to degenerate into the sort of show trial that dispatched the former Iraqi dictator, Saddam Hussein, the credibility of Egypt's transition to constitutional government would be compromised.
For all its cathartic importance, however, Mr Mubarak's trial must not be allowed to obscure the guilt of other former officials.
The former Egyptian president is ultimately responsible for any crimes and injustices perpetrated by the system he created.
But those who contributed to such high crimes must also be held to account.
That Mr Mubarak is accompanied in the dock by Mr al-Adly and some former security officials is a start – but no more.
Many of Mr Mubarak's henchmen remain in authority or at large.
Nor should the trial of Mr Mubarak become a substitute for the reforms required to cement Egypt's journey from tyranny to democracy.
Faith in the transition cannot be assured as long as the country's military leadership continues its authoritarian practice of trying civilians before military tribunals.
Trust in the police will not be rebuilt if they continue to employ tactics reminiscent of the old regime, as they did on Monday in forcibly clearing protesters from Tahrir Square.
Reform is also necessary on other fronts.
Economic stagnation was one of the main causes of the wave of frustration that finally swept Mr Mubarak from power.
Yet in the six months since the revolution, the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces has done little to free up Egypt's sclerotic economy.
Once elections have been held this autumn, a new constitution must also be drawn up.
Constitutional and economic reforms take time.
But to prevent Egypt's transition from losing momentum it is imperative that the interim authorities begin this process now.
It is these changes, not the sight of Mr Mubarak in court, that will ultimately bring Egyptians the freedoms they have fought so hard to achieve.