The much-delayed stock market flotation of Rusal, the controversial Russian aluminium group, is, if nothing else, a sign of investors recovering their appetite for risk.
Rarely has an offer come to market plastered with so many waivers and warnings.
But Oleg Deripaska, the controlling shareholder, and his advisers are betting the improvement in sentiment will help Rusal with its $2.6bn Hong Kong offering.
The company needs the cash to support the restructuring of debts, which last year threatened to overwhelm Rusal — and, as the prospectus says, still might do so.
The 1,141-page document opens with a red-letter warning saying the company could lose its status as a going concern if it breaks tight conditions imposed by creditors.
And there is more, much more.
The prospect spares no blushes in spelling out the risks involved in doing business in Russia, including ""the use of government power"" against companies through tax, environmental and prosecutorial probes — with penalties including forfeiture and nationalisation.
Mr Deripaska's long-running legal battle with Michael Cherney, a former partner, is set out in commendable detail.
The case, in which Mr Deripaska disputes Mr Cherney's claims to a Rusal stake, is due to be heard in London soon.
As the prospectus says, investors could be ""adversely"" affected since changes in control of Rusal could allow creditors to foreclose.
For good measure, the document quotes an English judge's view that the case could not be heard in Russia because of the risks involved, including assassination.
Wisely, the exchange is limiting the offer to professional investors. Only 10.6 per cent of the equity is on offer, compared with 25 per cent in a standard Hong Kong IPO.
Investors cannot say they have not been warned.
Even the Kremlin's toughest critics would struggle to write a better guide to the hazards of dealing with Russia and its oligarchs.
So should a respectable bourse be offering the stock?
Yes, as long as the prospectus correctly reflects the dangers.
Professionals ready to commit funds to an unpredictable venture should be free to do so.
It is on such risk-taking that capitalism is built.
But widows and orphans must stay well away.