America's business community fought hard to kill off Dodd-Frank's “say on pay” legislation, which forces companies to put remuneration policies to a shareholder vote.
The overwhelming rejection by Citigroup investors of Vikram Pandit's $15m pay award shows they were right to be nervous.
The legislation is beginning to have an effect.
It may be too soon to declare that these votes will radically alter attitudes on executive pay in a country where investor rights are weak.
The vote is only advisory, so boards can still press ahead with unpopular pay awards whatever shareholders think.
But Citi's slap will resound across Wall Street and beyond.
After all, Mr Pandit gave up his salary and bonus for two years running, earning just $1 for what is a round-the-clock job.
It could be that shareholders are just fed up with Citi's poor record on pay.
Over the past decade it has paid its chief executives handsomely compared with peers, regardless of its relatively poor performance.
Such behaviour will no longer be tolerated.
Or it could be that investors were understandably incensed by the $10m retention fee awarded to Mr Pandit last year.
By approving a payment that shareholders believe is not linked to quantifiable targets, the remuneration committee has undone all the good that Mr Pandit's symbolic $1 sacrifice achieved.
Nor has it helped that the vote came a day after investors were told they might have to wait until 2013 for a dividend increase.
True, Citi's room for manoeuvre has been limited by the Federal Reserve, which rejected its request to raise the dividend.
But Citi can still go back with a lower proposal for this year instead of holding off until 2013.
Mr Pandit may feel aggrieved, given that the bank is back in profit.
But since joining in 2007 he has not done that badly.
He received $165m when Citi bought his hedge fund on arrival at the bank.
In addition, Mr Pandit has earned $53m in pay and bonuses.
Citi says it will now consult shareholders to listen to their concerns.
The question is why the board did not do this before the vote.
And if it did, why was it unaware of these concerns?
Other companies, such as GE, heard the message loud and clear and adapted their pay structures accordingly.
Citi should do the same.
In the meantime Mr Pandit might think hard about whether it is appropriate to accept a retention payment tied to opaque targets.
At the very least, he might consider a generous donation to charity.