A rose by any other name might smell as sweet.
But what should we call things we do not find quite so fragrant?
For more than 20 years, the Financial Times has stuck with the name Burma even though the government that has long brutalised that country has called it Myanmar since 1989.
Now, we are altering our policy.
From today, we will refer to Myanmar by its official name.
Why and why now?
The arguments are not clear cut.
But on balance, there are several reasons for making the switch.
First, the term Burma has become increasingly loaded.
Used on our news pages, it strongly implies we do not approve of the government in power.
On our editorial pages, we are perfectly at liberty to criticise a government, that even after tentative steps towards reform, lacks legitimacy.
But in the rest of the paper, the term undermines our objectivity.
Second, the name Myanmar has gained growing international acceptance.
It is used by the United Nations, by the Association of South-East Asian Nations (which Myanmar will chair in 2014) and even by Amnesty International.
True, the US and the UK, among others, still use Burma.
Yet even some long-time campaigners for democracy find it increasingly awkward to use the old name.
Third, Myanmar is not some crackpot invention.
It, or a derivative, has been used to describe people around the Irrawaddy valley for 1,000 years.
A few hundred years ago, the colloquial form, Bama, appeared, and was adopted by the British because they found it easier to pronounce.
For many, Burma carries a colonial tinge.
Finally, many of the country's non-Burmans, a third of the population, regard Myanmar as more inclusive.
It smacks less of domination by a majority ethnic group.
The question of timing is trickier.
Some newspapers, when they saw the brutality of the regime, regretted changing to Myanmar so quickly after 1989.
But Myanmar has gradually become standard, especially inside the country itself.
Increasingly, the question is: why do we still call it Burma?
It could be pointed out that we do not always follow local usage.
We feel no obligation to use Nippon or Deutschland, even if we have changed from Persia to Iran, from Peking to Beijing and from Bombay to Mumbai.
The Myanmar/Burma debate, however, has become politicised.
Both terms, admittedly, carry baggage but on balance, we believe that Myanmar is now the less loaded.
We adopt it on the grounds of neutrality.