The judges of the Norwegian Nobel Committee have sometimes displayed an unusual sense of timing when it comes to the award of the annual Peace Prize.
In 2009, the committee caused controversy when it awarded the honour to Barack Obama after he had been less than a year in office. Its decision to award the Peace Prize to the EU provokes a similar debate about whether this is the right moment.
Today the EU is mired in crisis, with economic and social turmoil raging through Greece and Spain, much of it inflamed by the eurozone's debt problems.
The immediate reaction of many to this award will therefore be one of surprise. The image that the EU projects today is hardly one of “peace”.
That said, the Nobel Committee is taking a long view of the EU's history.
As it says in its citation, the EU and its forerunners “have for over six decades contributed to the advancement of peace and reconciliation, democracy and human rights in Europe”.
Its judgment is correct.
Since the 1950s, the economic integration of Europe's nations has been a foundation stone of continental peace.
As many states have emerged from authoritarianism – Spain, Portugal and Greece in the 1970s and 1980s, and eastern Europe in the 1990s – the European community has welcomed them into its fold, giving liberation a profound economic underpinning.
It is right for this to be rewarded in this way.
Some might question aspects of the committee's judgment.
The foundations of postwar peace were laid not just by the European project but by other institutions.
With the US at its core, Nato faced down the Soviet threat after 1949 and is still the ultimate guarantor of European security.
The Norwegian committee would never award the Peace Prize to Nato.
But is it less deserving?
There have been moments when the EU, as a bloc, failed lamentably to preserve peace.
In 1991, as Yugoslavia broke up, a European politician declared the “hour of Europe is at hand”.
Yet the EU failed to alleviate Bosnia's suffering.
Even today in the Balkans and north Africa, the EU cannot preserve peace without US assistance.
Still, Europe's achievement over six decades cannot be gainsaid.
This week we have seen the grotesque depiction of Chancellor Angela Merkel as a Hitlerian figure on the streets of Athens.
Greeks may be in pain.
But such demonstrations are a reminder that many Europeans today have no sense of the darkness into which Nazism had plunged their continent by 1945.
So, the award of the Nobel Prize is a moment when the people of Europe should pause for reflection.
It is a just recognition of what the 27 nations who today call themselves the European Union have achieved.