It has been a bad past week for Pedro Passos Coelho, Portugal's prime minister.
First, one of his closest allies had to resign over an inquiry into his academic qualifications.
Then, on Friday, the country's constitutional court struck down four austerity measures for 2013, leaving a €1.3bn gap in government finances.
Mr Coelho will have to find extra sources of savings to comply with the terms of the €78bn loan from European institutions and the International Monetary Fund.
The decision by Lisbon's constitutional judges appears questionable.
They ruled that the proposed suspension of the 14th-month summer payment to civil servants and pensioners distributed the burden of austerity unfairly, since it excluded private-sector workers.
The court's decision looks dangerously like over-reach.
Wages in the private sector are already falling as a result of the recession.
Civil servants work shorter hours and enjoy greater protection than their colleagues in the private sector.
Mr Coelho vowed that he would stick to the pacts and find the additional money – worth 0.8 per cent of national income – through spending cuts rather than tax increases.
This makes sense, since the latest budget was heavily skewed towards revenue-increasing measures.
The government workforce in some departments, for example security, can be shrunk without affecting the quality of front-line services.
Ministries should share services and resources more efficiently.
These cuts, however, should be part of a carefully considered plan to reform the state and not the result of a hasty scramble for savings.
International lenders have already twice relaxed their fiscal target for Portugal, which is now expected to reach a deficit of 5.5 per cent of gross domestic product, instead of the original 3 per cent.
They should consider offering a bit more leeway, in exchange for a renewed effort by the government on structural reform.
Lisbon has been widely praised for what it has done to shake up the supply side of its economy.
Its overhaul of labour laws has been among the most impressive in the eurozone periphery and its privatisation programme is on track.
However, a reform of the exceedingly slow judicial system is behind schedule.
Electricity prices are too high, as subsidies to energy companies remain excessive.
The telecommunications sector should also be reformed.
Ultimately, it will be impossible for Portugal to resume growing as long as the eurozone continues to stagnate.
At the insistence of international lenders, Lisbon is rebalancing its economic model towards exports.
Yet, while outward-looking companies are seeing some improvements in productivity, their success is constrained by the weakness of foreign demand.
Export growth is expected to slow to 0.8 per cent this year, down from 5.8 per cent in 2012.
No eurozone country is economically an island – and certainly not Portugal.
Without a European plan to boost growth, Lisbon's sacrifice risks being in vain.