In choosing to address a joint session of Congress on the economy, Barack Obama has once again stirred expectations.
He must rise to the occasion with brave proposals or risk confirming criticism from left and right alike that he is weak and beside the point.
The US president lost the economic initiative this year by seeming to acknowledge that fiscal policy was constrained, if not entirely exhausted.
Now he must regain it.
The worsening US economy calls for strong measures.
Job creation has stalled, and demand is insufficient to revive it.
A cycle of failing confidence and weakening activity has begun.
The country is grappling with an unfamiliar problem: long-term unemployment that erodes skills and drives disengagement from the labour force.
A persistent if not permanent loss of productive capacity is in prospect.
It cannot be stated too strongly: US fiscal policy is not exhausted (nor is monetary policy, for that matter).
The appetite for US public debt is undimmed: the government can borrow for next to nothing.
The longer-term fiscal problem is real, and must be confronted with immediate and credible commitments to cut spending and raise taxes in future – but this does not preclude further stimulus now.
On the contrary, these policies are ­complementary.
The longer the economy takes to revive, the less tractable the long-term fiscal problem will become.
Conversely, the firmer the commitment to long-term fiscal consolidation, the stronger the boost to activity from any new short-term stimulus.
The package should be substantial.
Proposals adding up to about $300bn have been mooted: extended cuts in payroll taxes, infrastructure spending, aid to the states to slow their shedding of jobs.
This looks far too modest.
Tax subsidies for net job creation should be part of the mix.
An initiative on housing, with stronger support for principal cuts on distressed mortgages, is needed too, difficult as this may be to design.
The Obama administration has long recognised the centrality of housing in the slow recovery, but its measures so far have been timid and administratively messy, and have made little difference.
On longer-term consolidation, Mr Obama must be no less specific.
Restoring fiscal control will require spending cuts (including from Social Security and Medicare) and higher taxes (not just on the rich).
His party does not want to hear it, but evading these issues will no longer do.
To revive his presidency as well as the economy, Mr Obama needs to lead.