Worries are growing that the Bank of Japan's great monetary experiment will destabilise other economies.
It is still a currency war of words only. But it would not be surprising if a monetary expansion of the scale planned by BoJ governor Haruhiko Kuroda did indeed spill over into connected markets.
Money-printing in Europe and the US has fuelled credit booms from Ankara to São Paulo.
There are signs the monetary pillar of “Abenomics” – Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's effort to restart Japan's economy – may have similar effects in Asia.
Japanese investors have become net buyers of foreign bonds and stocks.
Beijing fears hot money inflows camouflaged as export proceeds.
So far, however, danger has been averted.
The International Monetary Fund sees no “evidence yet that Japanese policy has led to significant spillovers”.
Abenomics' financial effects have mainly taken place inside Japan.
The stock market has stumbled after a breathtaking rally but the Nikkei remains 27 per cent above where it was at the new year.
Government bond yields have gone up, showing that private investors have sold even as the BoJ has committed to an unprecedented buying spree.
What should concern Japan's neighbours more than the financial waves from Abenomics are its effects on the real economy.
The yen's depreciation – more than 20 per cent in a year – matters hugely for the short-term outlook both of Japan and countries such as Taiwan and South Korea that compete for the same export markets.
If the plummeting yen buys Japan a quick growth spurt, it does so by snatching demand from others.
At the same time it helps those that participate in the Japanese manufacturing supply chain, such as China, which will benefit from cheaper Japanese inputs.
In the long term, what matters most is the real outcome of Abenomics.
An export boom is no lasting solution for Japan.
But if Mr Kuroda succeeds in defeating deflation, and if Japan manages to to find and sustain a domestically powered growth model, both the country and the world around it will benefit.
Japan is a huge net creditor to the rest of the world; in a healthier economy, its people may choose to draw down some of that wealth instead of adding to it.
This happy ending requires more than monetary or fiscal action.
The structural obstacles ensnaring Japan must be cleared.
Trade liberalisation and greater labour participation are among the imperatives.
That is what Japan's neighbours should really impress on Mr Abe.