It has been clear for some time that China's municipalities ran up big debts during the country's heroic post-crisis stimulus in 2009.
But only now are the full consequences of this binge emerging.
It is not pretty.
According to the country's first audit of local government finances, municipalities have run up debts of Rmb10,700bn ($1,656bn), equivalent to about 30 per cent of the country's gross domestic product.
The quality of many of these loans is thought to be poor.
Collectively they threaten an upsurge of non-performing loans in the banking system.
The main reason for the towering total is that municipalities were let off the financial leash following the crisis.
Beijing tacitly allowed them to circumvent a rule restricting their ability to borrow from banks by setting up so-called local government financing vehicles (LGFVs).
This licence led to the creation of a hidden overhang of loans.
Many of these were invested unwisely in poorly monitored projects, roughly a quarter of which generate no revenue, according to a Chinese official.
Beijing's forbearance in letting local governments indulge in a reckless debt-fuelled splurge was admittedly the key factor that powered the post-crisis rebound.
Bank capital acted as a sort of force magnifier to the official stimulus package.
But problems are now bubbling to the surface.
It appears that some municipalities borrowed heavily from the banks, taking the view that the bigger the financial problem they generated the more likely the central government would ultimately be to bail them out.
Many may now be unable to repay what they owe.
Beijing is unlikely to step aside and let large numbers of LGFVs fail, not least because that would cause knock-on problems for the state-controlled financial sector.
But it must also get a grip on what is an abusive system of local government finance before this becomes a bigger problem.
The answer is not to stop local governments from raising external finance, but to ensure that they do so responsibly.
Rather than borrowing from banks, they should be able to issue bonds.
This would require municipalities to be more transparent about their finances. It would also force them to be more disciplined, leading hopefully to better investment decisions.
Greater fiscal autonomy for local government may not be top of Beijing's to-do list.
But sticking with the alternative would be to perpetuate a wasteful and unaccountable system, the financial perils of which are now all too evident.