Barack Obama is busy fleshing out his 2012 re-election message.
America needs to create jobs, the president has been telling voters in the swing states of North Carolina and Virginia on a campaign-style tour this week.
But the mostly Republican “do nothing” Congress would prefer to look after its friends on Wall Street.
The script is sorting itself out nicely.
Having failed to overcome the 60-vote hurdle to end a Senate filibuster, Mr Obama watched his $450bn jobs bill grind to a halt last week.
Partly at the behest of the Republican leadership, which dismissed his plan as a “second stimulus”, the White House broke it up into “bite-sized chunks”.
Not that this is likely to make much difference.
The first of these is a $35bn aid package to states to keep teachers and emergency workers from being laid off, which the Senate could vote on by the end of this week.
It would be funded by a 0.5 per cent surcharge on annual incomes of more than $1m.
Who could disagree with that?
The answer is the entire Republican caucus and a handful of Democratic centrists nervous of being associated with new public spending.
Getting to 60 Senate votes could also prove hard for the other chunks, which are likely to include an extension of unemployment insurance, a renewal of the partial holiday on payroll taxes and funding to renovate basic infrastructure.
Even if Mr Obama somehow managed to squeeze those through the Senate, they would be sure to fail in the Republican-dominated House.
To be sure, each of these proposals has merit – laying off teachers is bad both for children and for the economy.
So too is removing benefits from people who cannot find jobs.
Yet there is an undertone of cynicism to the exercise.
Even if Mr Obama's full jobs bill had gone through – his last big legislative effort before the election – it would only have created 1.9m jobs in an economy where almost 15m people are unemployed.
But Mr Obama knew it would not stand much of a chance.
The president's gambit has little to do with reality and everything to do with perception.
Perhaps more than most democracies, America is suffering a crisis of governance at a time of acute economic need.
The moment requires boldness of vision.
If Mr Obama intends to remain in campaign mode from now on, the least he could do is to match his arguments to the enormity of the challenge.