Central banks can only delay market price adjustments.
Only days ago, policymakers were executing their responsibility for the economy by fighting one another.
Now the battle has been joined with securities traders in central banks' effort to stamp out a combustion of market panic.
The firefighting is unlikely to be any more effective than the infighting.
International financial markets have been upended by three sweeping shifts in just a few weeks.
The first is in stock markets, which have been sliding fast.
The S&amp;P500 has fallen on eight of the past nine trading days, losing almost one-10th of its value in the process.
Europe looks no better: the FTSE100 is down by almost seven and the DAX by 11 per cent since the beginning of the month.
Second, currency markets have seen their own shifts.
For weeks, the yen and the Swiss franc, traditional havens for fearful investors, had been pushing upward relative to the world's major currencies.
The appreciation did not stop until the two countries' central banks abruptly acted to halt it on Wednesday and Thursday.
Third, markets for bank funding are sputtering, particularly in Europe.
With falling prices for Italian and Spanish government debt, those countries' banks find it hard to finance themselves in private debt markets, and their share values have sunk like stones.
Overnight deposits at the European Central Bank have doubled in less than a week: banks are nervous about lending excess funds to their peers in the interbank market.
If these swings were due to shallow liquidity of August markets, as some say, one might expect things soon to return to normal.
But this seems unlikely.
In some markets – for big American stocks, for instance – volumes have grown in step with prices falling.
In others – notably sovereign debt markets – information on volumes is hard to get.
And foreign exchange markets are the most liquid of all.
Instead, the market shifts seem plainly driven by a wave of pessimism and fear about the economic outlook.
This seems justified given hapless policy responses to US and eurozone debt woes and accumulating evidence of slowing growth.
Except for easing liquidity conditions for banks, central banks can hardly stop market prices from reflecting market sentiment.
Swiss and Japanese attempts to stem currency appreciation will at best delay price shifts; the same is true for the ECB's return to buying stressed sovereign debt.
Only politicians and the Treasuries they control have tools to turn economic fear into hope.
Their recent form is reason enough to remain scared.