After months of speculation, the final list of candidates for the next World Bank president is now clear.
On Friday Barack Obama nominated Jim Yong Kim, a world-renowned health expert.
The wrong-headed stitch-up that gives the presidency of the World Bank to the US and the managing director's post at the International Monetary Fund to Europe means Mr Kim is almost certain to get the job.
His competitors are two highly-regarded economists – the former Colombian finance minister, José Antonio Ocampo, and Nigeria's minister of the economy and finance, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala.
This newspaper has acknowledged that, were Mr Kim to be selected, he could be a good choice.
His background in health fits well with the Bank's broader development goals, while his managerial record at the World Health Organisation shows that he could be effective at implementing these aims.
But the Bank needs more than this.
Its new leader should have a command of macroeconomics, the respect of leaders of both the funding and the funded countries, and the management skills to implement his or her vision.
These requirements make Ms Okonjo-Iweala the best person for the role.
Ms Okonjo-Iweala has real-world experience of policy-making in one of the most challenging developing countries.
Her experience in tackling corruption would be helpful in the battle against the misuse of Bank funds.
While her record as a finance minister is not flawless, her reforming drive has earned her credibility with the international community.
That, and her charismatic personality, should help her to rally support for the Bank.
Having served as managing director under outgoing World Bank president, Robert Zoellick, she also has a unique knowledge of how the institution works.
While one risk could be the temptation not to challenge the status quo, she might find it easier than other candidates to gain the respect of staff and build on Mr Zoellick's legacy.
Ms Okonjo-Iweala's merits are amplified by another, more symbolic aspect.
Having an African woman at the helm of the world's leading development institution would send a strong signal both to developing and developed countries.
Of all people, Mr Obama must be able to grasp the importance of this message.
In this less than ideal world, Mr Kim's appointment seems inevitable.
But if the Bank's shareholders wanted the best president, they would opt for Ms Okonjo-Iweala.