What had once been described as “the trial of Vercingetorix” has come to an unexpected end.
Jacques Chirac, the former President of France, has been convicted for misusing public funds when he was mayor of Paris in the 1990s.
Mr Chirac was long assumed to enjoy a measure of judicial indulgence that went well beyond the formal protection he was entitled to by virtue of his office.
Voices from across the political spectrum had called for the trial to be shelved.
Sceptics had wrongly assumed that the court would somehow find ways to kick the ruling into the long grass.
That the French judicial system has held Mr Chirac to account is testimony to its independence.
Mr Chirac's two-year sentence was actually harsher than that of the others accused in the trial.
His age and weak health justify the judges' decision to suspend the jail term.
The outcome of the trial is less flattering for the political system.
Mr Chirac is the first former head of state to be sentenced in the fifth Republic.
But his conviction follows several other affairs.
France's foreign minister, Alain Juppé, was convicted in 2004 in connection with Mr Chirac's case.
Then there are the unsubstantiated allegations that Nicolas Sarkozy took undeclared cash from the billionairess Liliane Bettencourt.
There is no suggestion that any money ended up in the pockets of the politicians concerned.
Mr Chirac was found guilty of using taxpayers' money to fund party activities.
But the recurrence of such affairs suggests there may be something wrong in the way France lubricates its political machine.
Whether the symbolic conviction of a former president will change this state of things is moot.
Mr Chirac's fate may perhaps constrain politicians' sense of impunity.
If there are doubts, it is because of past experience.
Mr Juppé bounced back to high office just six years after his conviction.
With only months to go before France's next presidential election, mainstream politicians should be wary how they calibrate their response.
Mr Chirac's downfall may be treated with some indulgence by a public that has come to see him as a kind of grandfather to the nation.
But fringe politicians such as the Front National's Marine Le Pen will view it with a less forgiving eye, seeking to play up to the public's perception that all politicians are on the take.
France's mainstream parties should be careful.
At a time of crisis, populist sloganeering can prove dangerously effective.