Whenever President Hosni Mubarak actually steps down, the swirl of events in Egypt makes clear that his era – disfigured by stagnation and political degradation – is over.
The army looks to be easing him off stage.
The regime's failure to break the morale or momentum of the protesters, who burst on to the streets calling for regime change after last month's implosion of the Tunisian dictatorship, has made the departure of Mr Mubarak inevitable.
The proliferation of strikes across Egypt, and the decision of professional organisations to join the protest as it spreads from Cairo's Tahrir Square to the siege of parliament and state media, was building up into an epic display of rebellion after Friday prayers.
The army said it would take the “necessary measures to protect the nation and support the legitimate demands of the people”.
That could mean an old-fashioned coup, as vice-president Omar Suleiman warned on Wednesday – a threat that seems to have inflamed the uprising.
More likely it means Mr Mubarak handing over the reins to Mr Suleiman, his former intelligence chief, or the supreme council of the armed forces.
US insistence that the regime must meet some of the demands of the protesters may have influenced the army, which depends on an annual American stipend of $1.3bn.
A democratic transition must begin now for Egypt to regain its stability.
Mr Mubarak said his departure would open a vacuum that would be filled by chaos.
His dictatorship, cloaked rarely by more than half a fig-leaf, has laid waste to institutional and political life in ways that could fulfil that prophecy.
But this need not be so.
It is young, educated, networked and often secular democrats who have led these protests.
But they, too, need a democratic transition that gives them time to mobilise their forces to compete with the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt's best-organised opposition.
The army, which has played a largely neutral role, should usher in a constituent process.
That means immediately abolishing emergency rule; a council to modify the constitution and set new democratic rules; and a broad-based transitional government in which the forces for change see themselves reflected.
Parliamentary and presidential elections should then follow.
This is a fraught moment.
All revolutionary upheaval and transition from tyranny is.
But it is a moment bursting with possibilities that could change the face of the Arab world.
Print article Email article Order reprint