France's President Nicolas Sarkozy likes to present himself as Captain Courageous, a leader who takes the hard decisions from which his predecessors so often shrank.
It is certainly a brave man who would increase France's value added tax just ahead of a challenging presidential election.
The government is planning to cut the heavy social charges which weigh on the competitiveness of French businesses, while making up the shortfall in welfare funding with a “social” increase in VAT.
The idea is that this would make French products more competitive, and imports costlier – a sort of pseudo-devaluation.
Social charges do weigh on the competitiveness of French companies.
On top of every €100 of wages paid, they have to add €50 in charges, against €39 in Germany.
Companies thus contribute to a higher proportion of the welfare system than in many other countries, even to family allowances.
It makes sense to address such anomalies.
But the choice should not be whether to tax companies or consumers more. The government should also consider the underlying sustainability of France's generous welfare system.
Mr Sarkozy may believe he can sell higher VAT as a patriotic move to bolster French industry.
It may also help to generate useful extra tax revenues, in the likely event that official economic forecasts prove too optimistic.
But the move carries risks.
As the economy slows and unemployment rises, higher VAT could deal a damaging blow to consumption, long the motor of French growth.
True, Germany introduced a similar “social VAT” in 2007 with little ill effect. But this was off a lower base.
Bank of America/Merrill Lynch found that when Denmark made a similar move in the 1980s, at a time of low growth, consumption fell and unemployment rose.
The way in which France funds its welfare system needs readjusting.
Companies bear too great a burden.
Employers' social contributions account for 27 per cent of total taxation, against 18 per cent in Germany and 15 per cent in the OECD.
In contrast, 17 per cent of revenue is derived from personal income, against 25 per cent in Germany, 31 per cent in the UK and 25 per cent in the OECD.
Progressive taxation is a fairer way to fund state spending, while a simple VAT rise disproportionately hits the poor.
But the root of the problem is not taxation. It lies in an overgenerous welfare system.
Tackling that ahead of the presidential election would be the true sign of political courage.