As gaffes go, Barack Obama's description of China as an “adversary” in his debate with Mitt Romney on Monday could have been worse.
Almost none of the debate watchers picked up on it in the US.
And the president quickly added that China was also a potential partner.
Yet it was a slip nonetheless.
It also revealed Mr Obama's disappointment with a relationship into which he entered with such high hopes a few years ago.
Presidential debates have never been the best forum for constructive thinking.
Yet there were reasons to worry that the final such exercise in Boca Raton signals an unwelcome inwards turn by the US.
First, almost the entire 90 minutes was taken up with terrorism and the Middle East.
It was only towards the 80th minute that China arose as a topic.
Even then, both Mr Romney and Mr Obama quickly pulled the focus back on to jobs in Ohio.
Neither talked about China's leadership transition, its testy relations with its neighbours or human rights.
Early in Mr Obama's administration, he embarked on a “G2” overture to China, which was humiliatingly rebuffed.
As is true of so many of Mr Obama's early initiatives, this one has been forgotten.
But it is inconceivable in his first year that Mr Obama would have accidentally used the term “adversary”.
Second, Mr Obama may indeed have made a Freudian slip.
To the extent the two discussed China, it was entirely negative.
Mr Obama boasted that he had taken more punitive trade actions against China in one term than George W. Bush had in two.
Mr Romney only promised to intensify them further.
To be sure, this is standard talk in an election season.
But both candidates are now worryingly specific in the punitive measures they have promised.
It will take dexterity on either part to march their troops down the hill after November 6.
Finally, if China is a potential adversary, then the US public deserves a more sophisticated debate.
Mr Obama is in the midst of the so-called pivot to Asia – a topic not considered worthy in Boca Raton. And Mr Romney has vowed to step up the Pentagon's already generous budget.
At a point in history when power and money is shifting from west to east, US democracy ought to be able to do better than this.
No one wants to see an adversarial relationship between Beijing and Washington.
Yet on Monday neither candidate could spell out how that would be avoided.