Supporters and critics of the UK government's fiscal stance were keenly awaiting this month's visit by the International Monetary Fund.
In April, the IMF shifted its stance on the coalition's austerity programme and made the case for greater flexibility.
Yesterday, it shifted again, at least in terms of its language.
The mission's conclusion on fiscal policy is a mixed bag.
George Osborne will be delighted the IMF has toned down its earlier criticisms.
Together with the recent string of good economic data, this will strengthen his message that the economy is on the right track.
Yet, critics can also find something to like in what the IMF said.
The fund recommends that Mr Osborne should “bring forward planned capital investment”, borrowing more today and paying for it through deeper cuts tomorrow.
The chancellor should be relaxed about the critique.
What matters is that the overall size of the programme of fiscal consolidation stays the same.
Whether a few billions of capital spending are brought forward does not matter and may, in fact, be desirable.
The same is true of the composition of the fiscal envelope.
As the IMF argues, Mr Osborne should cut deeper on current spending to invest more.
While politically sensitive, this discussion is, economically, a side issue.
As the IMF has been forced to accept, there is no easy fiscal solution to Britain's malaise.
Monetary policy should do more.
But with interest rates already at record lows, it can only do so much.
The answer must lie in financial and supply side policies.
On both fronts, the government should heed the IMF's advice.
The fund's call for a less restrictive immigration policy is timely given the noise from backbenchers who want tighter caps.
Easier planning laws would ensure that the government's schemes to reinvigorate the housing market, notably “help to buy”, boost construction, not just house prices.
As currently structured, this policy is an accident waiting to happen.
As for the banks, the answer is more competition and capital.
The government has done regrettably little to open an oligopolistic market.
Fragile banks such as Lloyds and Royal Bank of Scotland have set out plans to meet their capital shortfalls.
But regulators have been too lenient.
Inadequately capitalised lenders will continue to limit lending.
This in turn, will hamper growth.
For all the brouhaha about changing tack on fiscal policy, Britain's priority should be to fix its banks.