The idea of using oil as a weapon calls to mind the Arab oil embargo of October 1973, when prices quadrupled overnight and the US, Europe and Japan, then the biggest energy consumers, saw long queues at petrol stations.
The industrialised world was thrown into turmoil by the turn of the spigot.
In response it created the International Energy Agency to protect security of supply and thus make it harder for the global economy to be held to ransom by the actions of a few producers.
Yet in the history of oil warfare, consuming nations have generally been the aggressors rather than the victims.
As A.F. Alhajji, a US-based energy economist has pointed out, the consumers rather than the producers have more often used the oil embargo as a tool of diplomacy or warfare over the last 75 years.
Washington alone has “historically imposed a greater number of oil embargoes than any other nation”. Targets have included Japan before the second world war; the Soviet Union in the 1960s; as well as South Africa, Burma, Serbia, Haiti, Libya, Iraq, Iran, and Sudan in the last two decades.
Indeed the tempo is increasing.
Europe has imposed embargoes this year on Libya and Syria to press the regimes.
Brussels is mulling an embargo on Iran to stop Tehran's nuclear programme.
The US itself is considering fresh sanctions against Iran's central bank.
De facto, that could mean a universal oil embargo, since China and India – two allies of Iran – would face colossal difficulties to pay for the oil they buy from Tehran.
The growing enthusiasm for using oil as a weapon cuts across efforts to depoliticise the hydrocarbon.
Saudi Arabia, the leader of the Opec oil cartel, and oil importers such as the UK, Germany, the US and Japan grouped around the Paris-based IEA have worked hard to separate oil from politics since the first oil crisis in 1973.
As Ali Naimi, the powerful Saudi oil ministers, has said in the past: “I am about the business of crude oil; I leave the diplomacy to the foreign minister”.
Since the early 1980s relations between the oil producers and the consumers, although not always amicable, have been conducted on commercial terms.
Oil exporters and importers have a tacit bargain: security of supply in return for security of demand.
But once a relationship becomes coloured by political considerations and supply endangered, the consequences may be far-reaching for the global economy.
Brussels and Washington justify their embargoes on moral grounds.
The objective is to stop rogue regimes from developing weapons of mass destruction – in the case of Iran – or dictatorial governments from massacring their own population – in the cases of Libya and Syria.
But the success rate is uneven.
Some have worked, such as the action against Muammer Gaddafi's regime in Libya; others have not, including the US embargo on Iranian oil which has been in place since October 1987.
Oil being a fungible commodity, Tehran's supply has simply flowed to where there remain able and willing buyers.
But if the political impact is uncertain, the consequences for the global energy market and economic activity are clearer: they distort normal trade flows and can force prices higher.
In some cases, such as in the European Union's action against Syria, they restrict supplies to the wider world.
This suggests the need for a selective approach, rather than the use of oil as a first resort in disputes.
Energy consumers must pick fights they can both justify and win.
The worry is that by their careless use of the oil weapon, they may slowly but surely reverse 30 years of hard work devoted to persuading oil producing nations to depoliticise supply.
After all, if it is legitimate for consumers to impose embargoes, producers may ultimately conclude that it is fine for them to follow suit.