Even as it becomes commonplace to think the future belongs to the emerging world, the old economic powers can still pack a punch.
The ambitious decision by the US and the EU to launch trade liberalisation talks promises a prize whose political value is even greater than its considerable economic benefits.
Often, bilateral trade agreements are double-edged swords: they promote trade between the participants, but risk displacing beneficial trade with third parties.
Ideally, multilateral deals are better.
But the Doha trade round shows that global trade liberalisation can remain an ideal for a long time.
In this case, the goal is to intensify trade between the world's two biggest economies, which between them make up half of the world economy and account for a third of its trade.
Any trade-displacing effects would be too small to outweigh the economic benefits of a successful trade deal – especially when Europe, and to a lesser extent the US, struggle to grow.
Real progress will relate less to tariffs than to non-tariff barriers to trade, in particular product regulations such as health and safety rules.
Harmonisation is unlikely, so the goal should be to establish processes for mutual recognition of each side's standards.
As with tariff cuts, this would benefit consumers, but also raise competitive pressure on domestic producers.
The political stakes are greater than the economic ones, and probably why President Barack Obama has chosen to push ahead despite doubts on both sides whether such a thorny negotiation can be concluded successfully.
Emphasising the importance of economic ties with Europe, as Mr Obama did in his State of the Union address, far from contradicts his “pivot to Asia”. 
Instead it adds to US leverage across the Pacific by showing that the US has alternatives and is boosting its economic strength.
If the US and the EU can agree on norms for closer trade, those norms are likely to be definitive for much of the rest of the world.
The message – that the west remains a pole of attraction able to set terms for global economic interaction – will not be missed, least of all by a China already feeling excluded from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the US's other, less promising big trade project.
If presented as an open process – which in principle can be joined by those willing to play by the same high standards – this trade deepening should inspire, not threaten, other powers.
That is a goal worthy of the global aspirations which two regions, diminished by economic crises, ought to maintain.