Cross-border financial institutions pose a quandary for regulators.
The health of a European bank, for example, can be affected by what its New York office is up to – information that resides mainly in the US.
Americans doing business with the US office, meanwhile, rely on the standing of its European parent, which cannot easily be scrutinised by US regulators.
Since authorities in both places are partially sighted, the obvious solution is to work together.
But their interests may not coincide.
Since each regulator cares most about looking after its home country, neither may trust the other to oversee an institution that matters to both.
The problem is exacerbated if regulators are under political pressure to play down problems that may be real and serious.
The US proposes to solve the problem with the blunderbuss of extraterritorial jurisdiction.
American authorities want to be able to demand the internal records of the European parents of registered US dealers – among them, large banks such as Barclays, Deutsche Bank and Société Générale.
Unless the US is offering to cede access to the books of American banks, such as Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, this looks breathtakingly one-sided.
Recent years have seen international fallout from failings by regulators on both sides of the Atlantic.
The US should not expect concessions from Europe that it would not be willing to grant in return.
Still, American misgivings about the robustness of the current framework for regulating international banks should be taken seriously.
All countries share an overwhelming interest in the stability of the financial system.
Part of the solution lies in better co-ordination.
As well as sharing information on a reciprocal basis, regulators should review each other's work.
This would force national authorities to broaden their perspective and confront their own shortcomings.
Beyond that, structural changes may help reduce reliance on foreign regulators, for example if bank subsidiaries are forced to hold enough capital to withstand stress without falling back on an overseas parent.
Many countries worry about the stability of international banks.
As the world's largest economy and the centre of global finance, the US can never fully insulate itself from such concerns.
It is wrong to believe that by arrogating powers to regulate foreign banks, it can deal with them alone.
Instead of fighting turf wars, it should help build a new financial order.