Scientists are more certain than ever that human activities are significantly affecting climate across the world, says the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in its first assessment of the evidence since 2007. 
That conclusion may surprise some people, following a well publicised series of setbacks over the past few years for those who believe that the battle against global warming should be near the top of the international political and economic agenda.
Increasingly vocal climate sceptics have made the most of leaked “Climategate” emails, mistakes in the last IPCC report (notably an erroneous prediction about the disappearance of Himalayan glaciers), the failure of the UN climate summit in Copenhagen – and, most significantly, a lengthening “pause” in the rise in atmospheric temperatures averaged across the globe. 
But the IPCC document released on Friday in Stockholm – a 36-page summary of a long assessment based on 9,200 individual studies – demonstrates that research and observations continue to strengthen the scientific case for action against climate change.
The policy makers for whom the report was written must respond with renewed efforts to cut emissions of carbon dioxide, the most important greenhouse gas. 
No politician who denies all this evidence can be taken seriously.
International negotiations under the UN's auspices remain essential, culminating in the next climate summit scheduled for 2015 in Paris, but local, regional and national action is becoming increasingly effective too. 
An encouraging sign was the bilateral agreement that the US and China signed in July to cut carbon emissions from heavy-duty vehicles and coal-fired power plants.
In the short term, however, attention will focus on the IPCC itself; this summary will be followed on Monday by the release of its full assessment of the scientific basis of climate change. 
Further reports, looking at “adaptation” and “mitigation” – in other words, what to do about it – will appear next year.
The documents will deserve and receive close scrutiny by people on different sides of the climate change argument. 
Of course, sceptics will look for more chinks in the scientific argument and demonstrably false claims. 
Conversely, campaigners pressing for stronger action may search for signs of global warming, such as the rapid melting of Arctic ice, which the authors might have toned down to avoid accusations of alarmism and to achieve consensus between the hundreds of contributing scientists.
The release of this new round of assessment reports gives the IPCC and other climate scientists an opportunity to show that they are becoming more responsive to constructive challenges than they have been in the past. 
Although the Climategate investigations found no wrongdoing, the affair left an impression of a research establishment prone to groupthink that needed challenging.
The weakest point in the assessment, where challenge is most likely, is its treatment of the “pause”. 
Although the report mentions various factors that might counteract global warming, from random natural variation to the oceans absorbing more heat than expected, there is no clear explanation. 
The climate models run on supercomputers around the world predict an imminent acceleration of warming but, since none of them forecast the slowdown, there must be some question about their reliability.
While such doubts are not enough to undermine the overwhelming evidence for man-made climate change, policy makers need to be updated on the science more frequently than the rather cumbersome six-yearly assessment cycle adopted by the IPCC so far.