David Cameron returned yesterday to the bear pit of the House of Commons at a fraught time for his government.
In recent days, the widening phone-hacking scandal has threatened to inflict substantial damage on the prime minister.
His judgment and authority have been called into question, both over the past employment of Andy Coulson as his chief media adviser and his excessively cosy relations with top News Corp executives.
In spite of a fighting performance, Mr Cameron did not wholly convince on either issue.
The prime minister's continued refusal to apologise for appointing Mr Coulson looks bizarre in light of recent revelations.
There were plenty of warnings about Mr Coulson's propinquity to the scandal that should have raised doubts about his claim to have known nothing about it.
Mr Cameron ignored all of them.
Having released details of his meetings with News Corp executives – something other party leaders have yet to do – Mr Cameron was on stronger ground on the question of cosiness.
But he spoilt it by not giving straight answers when asked if he had spoken to News Corp bosses about the bid for BSkyB.
There is, of course, more than a hint of humbug about the opposition's attacks on Mr Cameron.
The prime minister was right when he talked about the tendency of both main parties to court excessively cosy relationships with the media – particularly News Corp.
This charge could certainly be laid at the door of both his predecessors, Gordon Brown's recent anti-Murdoch tirade notwithstanding.
It reflects an obsession with media management that is often to the detriment of good government.
It will now be for the judge-led inquiry to consider how to reform the media and its relations with politicians.
This body has been given an impressively broad remit, including looking at broadcasting and social media as well as the press.
It has also the right to summon witnesses under oath.
This newspaper welcomes the fact that it will examine reforms to the rules on cross-media ownership and plurality – causes we have championed.
It is good that the coalition will make time for a communications bill to implement the findings in this parliament.
Fewer meetings with press moguls might help Mr Cameron.
Some Tory backbenchers have been grumbling about his handling of the scandal.
Freeing up his schedule would allow him to rebuild bridges.