That it was predictable does not make it any the less damaging.
Barack Obama's decision to impose safeguard tariffs on imported Chinese tyres suggests that, when forced to come off the fence on trade policy, he generally dismounts on the wrong side.
The arguments about why this decision is a bad one stack up relentlessly.
First, it involves protecting an industry that does not want to be protected.
American tyre manufacturers have not even been asking for tariffs: this complaint came from labour unions in the steel industry, which supplies tyre makers.
Competition (and technological change) can create real hardship and uncertainty in US manufacturing, but the number of jobs likely to be saved via such actions is minimal.
Second, since these safeguards are only applicable against China — part of the price it paid for joining the World Trade Organisation in 2001 — any gap in supply will most likely be filled by tyres from other low-cost developing countries, not an increase in US production.
Third, since the tariffs are meant only to provide temporary relief from import surges, we will be right back here in a few years.
Tyre imports are not worth starting a global trade war over.
But with calmness and cool heads, the early signs are that the skirmishes can be contained.
Wrongheaded though Mr Obama's action may be, it is still probably legal: China did, after all, sign up to the safeguards.
Beijing's reaction to the decision was swift but measured — a pattern it is beginning to establish in trade disputes.
It requested consultations at the WTO (the first step to litigation, though the complainant frequently does not follow through) and threatened to block imports of American chicken and auto parts — products whose sales are already restricted by existing trade disputes.
This is tit-for-tat: it does not yet look like escalation.
Mr Obama's predecessor, George Bush, though he rightly resisted using this particular safeguard, blocked steel imports early in his presidency, a much bigger deal than tyres.
Nonetheless a wholesale global retreat to protectionism did not ensue.