Any attempt to curb guns in a country that already has 300m in private hands is bound to be inadequate.
The fact that much of what Barack Obama unveiled yesterday – including the ban on assault weapons – is unlikely to pass Congress adds to the sense of helplessness.
Add in this week's offensive campaign by the National Rifle Association calling Mr Obama an “elitist hypocrite” for accepting armed protection for his daughters but opposing it in schools (when in fact he supports it) and it is easy to despair.
On guns the US remains a profoundly exceptionalist nation.
And the NRA is one of the most powerful organisations in the country.
But outrage is more fitting than despair.
Yesterday Mr Obama proposed a reasonable but modest set of steps that included a national background check on gun buyers as well as a ban on the sale of assault weapons and certain high-magazine clips.
These were described as the most sweeping gun control proposals in almost 20 years.
But it is not even clear they would have prevented last month's gruesome massacre of 20 children and seven adults in Newtown, Connecticut.
The killer stole the guns from his mother, who had no criminal record or history of mental illness.
On cue, the NRA accused Mr Obama of an assault on American liberty.
Given the group's influence, it is hard to see how even these inadequate steps will pass the Republican-controlled House of Representatives or even the Senate, where Democrats have a majority.
Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader from Nevada, is a strong ally of the gun lobby.
The NRA has vowed to spend money defeating legislators who vote for an assault-weapons ban.
Only an equal and opposing response to the NRA can work.
The time has come for Mr Obama and leaders in business and civil society to take on the NRA.
In the past 40 years about 1m Americans have been killed in gun violence – more than the combined US deaths from every war it has fought since 1917.
Since the Sandy Hook school massacre alone, another 900 Americans have been killed by guns.
In the name of freedom – and a paranoia about the US federal government – the NRA backs legislation across the country to permit gun owners to wear concealed firearms in churches, schools, shopping malls and even bars.
If Mr Obama is serious about tackling gun violence he must muster a winning coalition to break the gun lobby's pernicious stranglehold on US politics.