An Italian court's conviction of six scientists and an ex-official for giving inadequate information to the city of l'Aquila just before it was devastated by an earthquake has been compared with the papal condemnation of Galileo in 1633.
The judge stands accused of ignoring the scientific truth that earthquakes cannot be predicted, and of seeking scapegoats to appease the embittered population.
To be fair to the court, this is a misrepresentation of its verdict.
The magistrate acknowledged that earthquakes cannot be predicted.
However, he found the defendants had painted an overly reassuring picture to calm a panicking population.
This position was taken after an official meeting held only a few days before the earthquake, and following months of tremors in the region.
The defendants could have been more cautious in their message.
One of them stated on TV that there was “no danger” and explained that the tremors were a “favourable situation, that is to say a continuous discharge of energy”.
This was scientifically incorrect.
While a series of tremors is not normally followed by a disastrous quake, most scientists agree that a seismic sequence increases rather than reduces the probability of one.
There is clearly a case for the Italian authorities to review how the commission handled the situation.
Whether politicians leant on the scientists in order to influence their decision should also be investigated.
But convicting the scientists of manslaughter was the wrong decision.
In the case of an earthquake, failing to communicate the risks appropriately to the population does not mean that the scientists are responsible for the deaths.
The court's decision sets a dangerous precedent.
Yesterday, the head of Italy's disaster body resigned in protest.
In future, scientists could be reluctant to advise the government on how to deal with earthquakes and other natural disasters.
When they do, they may be inclined to issue alarmist warnings just to cover their backs.
This would be expensive and could fuel unnecessary panic.
The appeal court would be wise to reverse this week's decision.
The courts should then concentrate on the many outstanding trials against those builders and engineers who failed to abide by building codes.
The conduct of local politicians, so far untouched by the investigations, should also be scrutinised.
This would be a much better way to respond to the grievances of the citizens of l'Aquila.