The race to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn at the helm of the International Monetary Fund has started in earnest.
On Wednesday, Christine Lagarde, finance minister of France, declared her intention to become the IMF's next managing director.
European capitals have quickly fallen into lockstep behind her candidacy.
But for all Ms Lagarde's qualities, it would serve neither Europe nor the IMF if she won the position by a fait accompli as Europeans are hoping.
Leading emerging powers have taken umbrage at the Europeans' haste in claiming the position for one of their own – after promises that it would no longer be an Old World fiefdom.
Executive directors representing Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa called for “the most competent person being appointed regardless of his or her nationality”.
In this they are right, of course.
Whether it will in fact transpire depends largely on the Brics nations themselves coming up with a suitable candidate.
Some of Ms Lagarde's supporters point to the fact that the eurozone sovereign debt crisis and rescue loans constitute the IMF's biggest undertaking and most complex challenge.
This is true, though one cannot underestimate the importance of the IMF's other challenges, such as global macroeconomic flows, currency instability, or macroeconomic surveillance in an age of sickly financial sectors.
But the IMF's role in Europe is an argument not for the next managing director to be European, but for the characteristics he or she must possess.
They include deep knowledge of the European economy; the political heft necessary to carry weight in the continent; and sufficient technocratic expertise to command intellectual authority.
On all three counts, Ms Lagarde is highly capable but not uniquely strong – except on political influence, although the IMF's €280bn lifeline to the eurozone gives a powerful lever to any sufficiently strong-willed managing director.
As for knowledge of Europe's economy, there is no reason why non-Europeans cannot understand it as well as Europeans understood the economies of Latin America and Asia when those regions were the main focus of the IMF's lending.
Ms Lagarde has been an excellent finance minister but her command of economics has not been sufficient to save eurozone policymaking from avoidable mistakes.
She is also parti pris: her rejection of a eurozone sovereign restructuring yields to none.
The IMF needs to assess the merit of eurozone rescue programmes independently of what regional politics dictates.
So everyone would benefit from a real contest, in which a second candidate gave Ms Lagarde a run for her money.
She herself would gain authority from winning a proper race instead of being anointed.
This is possible only if two necessary conditions hold.
First, emerging nations resentful of Europe's stranglehold on the directorship must agree on a common candidate.
Second, this must be one that the US can conceivably support.
For its part, Washington, should resist the temptation to secure Europe's support for a US head of the World Bank in the usual stitch-up.
This it will do only if the emerging world presents an impressive common alternative.
Someone seen as too beholden to a Brics capital will not pass muster, which complicates Chinese or Russian-backed candidates.
Brazil's Arminio Fraga, South Africa's Trevor Manuel, Mexico's Agustín Carstens, and (if he can be persuaded to rejoin the race) Turkey's Kemal Dervis are capable and well-respected.
Stanley Fischer, Israel's central bank governor, uniquely combines brilliant academic expertise with experience at the top of banking and the Bretton Woods institutions – and might, as a US citizen, win Washington's support.
A united challenge would force Ms Lagarde to spell out in more detail how she would lead the IMF.
Let a true contest begin.