Statistics is not always the bedfellow of lies and damned lies.
At its best, it brings epiphanies.
An initiative by the OECD and the World Trade Organisation to map the value added embodied in international trade flows should be an eye-opener for policy makers.
Conventional export and import figures are calculated as the total value or volume of goods or services traded between two countries.
But in a globalised supply chain, the elements making up a final product may cross national borders many times during the production process.
Simple bilateral numbers do not capture this.
The researchers have painstakingly calculated the value a country adds to the goods and services it exports, by deducting the inputs going into their production that the exporter first had to import.
Locating where the value in traded products is created and who reaps the rewards gives a truer picture of trading relationships.
This does not affect countries' overall trade balances but it does alter the composition of surpluses and deficits between different trading partners.
The most argued-over trade deficit in the world – the US's with China – turns out to be much smaller when accounting for the value added in Chinese exports that comes from third countries, or even the US itself.
In the most popular illustration, China keeps only a fraction of the cost of an iPhone.
Those making political hay from trade disputes would do well to take in these findings.
An immediate implication is that imports are not the job-killers they are made out to be.
Supply chains now criss-cross the world, as highlighted by the global disruptions from local natural disasters such as the Tohoku earthquake or Thailand's floods.
This means imports that displace a country's domestic products may at the same time be the lifeblood of its exporting sectors.
Conversely, even low tariffs may cause more harm than they offer protection.
The new numbers also restore services to their rightful place.
Too much hot air is blown about the importance of “making things”.
In fact, services account for one-third of value added in core “things” such as machinery and chemicals.
Those who want trading success must focus more on the productivity of their service sectors.
Trade is becoming ever more gloriously interdependent.
This leads to painful changes, such as the squeezing of medium-skilled workers, but also more productivity.
By improving our understanding of the intricacy of world trade, the new data help us manage it better.