Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, probably does not write his speeches long in advance. If he does, he must be tearing up the early drafts of his speech for the Jackson Hole meeting of central bankers this Friday.
Topsy-turvy markets reflect how economic expectations have been turned upside down in the past few months – and with them, the considerations facing policymakers.
The will-he-will-he-not question on everybody's mind is whether Mr Bernanke will repeat his 2010 trick of signalling a new round of asset purchases – quantitative easing 3 – by the Fed.
On the logic by which Mr Bernanke justified earlier bouts of QE, the abrupt slowdown of the last six months should be a good occasion for doing more.
The Fed believes the earlier assets purchases worked, insofar as they lowered long-term interest rates.
But it is not clear how much this did for the recovery or to what extent more QE can stop the economy from stalling.
Long-term interest rates are already very low.
Lowering them further will mostly benefit those already accessing credit – large corporations and mortgaged households.
These are not showing any sign of wanting to spend more: households are busy deleveraging, and companies are happy to hoard their cash.
To boost demand, lending must flow to credit-constrained spenders or those with cash must find it worth using.
The former requires fixing a broken banking system that throttles credit expansion. The latter requires renewed confidence in the economy's growth prospects, and this is hard to imagine without some actual growth.
To QE3 or not to QE3, then, may not make all that much difference.
Much more radical monetary policies could, but Mr Bernanke seems not to be contemplating these.
So it is hardly surprising to hear more and more voices question the wisdom of rushing to cut fiscal deficits.
Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, rightly points out that growth-killing fiscal tightening can be as big a threat to creditworthiness as excessive deficits.
Denmark has become a pioneer among developed countries by considering a new fiscal stimulus package.
Rethinking the pace of fiscal consolidation must be done with care.
Most countries with huge deficits cannot afford to lose credibility and must avoid even the slightest whiff of second thoughts.
Others have more fiscal space than they think.
Especially if they act in concert, they have little to lose – and much to give to global demand – from loosening their belts a bit.