Jeroen Dijsselbloem, Dutch finance minister and eurogroup president, has been roundly criticised for suggesting Cyprus marks a new commitment by the eurozone to make bank investors, not taxpayers, bear the burden of future bank failures.
If he is prepared to deliver on his promises, he deserves to be cheered, not jeered.
While Mr Dijsselbloem has taken pains to stress that Cyprus is a special case (he never called it a “template”), the general approach has clearly gained standing with rescue-wary core countries.
That turnround comes not a minute too soon.
Recall that the creditor states, led by Germany, were all too willing to make taxpayers bail out bank investors when the taxpayers were Irish and the investors their own banks, insurers and pension funds.
Only months ago, Mr Dijsselbloem used public money to cover losses that should have fallen on creditors in SNS Reaal.
The back story means a pinch of salt is required with Dutch, German and other claims to a born-again appreciation for making investors pay the price of the risks they take on.
But if the conversion is genuine, the eurozone banking system faces a better prospect of being cured than in a long time.
The market will scrutinise banks to distinguish the strong from the weak, reintroducing proper incentives for management.
Those who manage risks well will be rewarded rather than punished for other bankers' sins.
Mr Dijsselbloem is wrong, however, to think that this may render the European Stability Mechanism unnecessary.
Leaders can still judge other problem banks too big to fail – they did, after all, think little Anglo Irish was as perilous to let go as Lehman Brothers.
If they do, they should also share the cost of keeping such banks afloat.
Even a non-systemic bank needs transitional funds to keep the good parts operating through a restructuring.
Mr Dijsselbloem should impress on his colleagues the implication of the new approach: namely that the European Commission's proposals for bank resolution regimes deserve more urgency.
The plan to require bail-in rules in all EU jurisdictions should be accelerated, as Berlin has argued.
Core countries must also support efforts to make deposit insurance effective across Europe.
The Commission wants national schemes to lend each other financial support.
Insured depositors should also be formally ranked above other senior creditors.
It would make deposit guarantees more credible, helping to repair the damage wrought by Cyprus's aborted deposit tax.