Even by recent standards of electoral pandering, the timing of Barack Obama's WTO complaint against China was unsubtle.
So too was his choice of venue for Monday's announcement.
Ohio may again turn out to be the decisive swing state in this election.
Mr Obama's complaint alleges that China is subsidising its auto-part exports – a sector on which most of Ohio's remaining industrial base depends.
His action was clearly tailored to Ohio concerns.
But the content – as opposed to the politics – of Mr Obama's move falls short of egregious.
Unlike section 421, which Mr Obama invoked in 2009 to impose anti-dumping duties on Chinese tyre imports, Monday's action falls within the spirit as well as the letter of multilateral rules.
China may, or may not, have given more than $1bn in illegal subsidies to its auto-parts exporters, as the complaint alleges.
But it is the WTO, and not the US administration, that will decide whether it is a case worth hearing.
Moreover, China has experience of the ebb and flow of America's electoral calendar.
Chinese officials well remember the contrast between Bill Clinton's China-bashing on the hustings in 1992 and his subsequent ushering of China into the WTO.
Yet Mr Obama should also be alert to the populist risks in his rhetoric.
Unlike the 1990s, America's labour market today is shrinking.
And unlike in the 1992 election, when George Bush senior flew the flag for free trade, this time it is the Republican nominee, Mitt Romney, who has raised the stakes on China.
There are two reasons for the White House candidates to show restraint in the next seven weeks.
First, Mr Romney has already pledged to risk a trade war in his first day in office by branding China a currency manipulator.
He reminds voters that Mr Obama has seven times declined to do so.
If the polls tighten in states such as Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin, Mr Obama will be tempted to follow suit.
He should resist.
Second, China is gradually shifting its economy towards greater consumption and allowing the yuan to appreciate against the dollar.
To be sure, China's rebalancing act may be halting and dilatory. But last week's decision by the US Fed to launch a third round of quantitative easing reminded us that both countries can play the currency game.
In opting to go through the WTO with his latest action, Mr Obama has erred on the side of “law law” rather than “war war”.
He should make sure to stay well within those bounds.