At the best of times, the US and China find it hard to keep their dialogue free of friction.
But the apparent defection last week of Chen Guangcheng, the blind Chinese activist, poses a far bigger threat than usual to their annual bilateral talks.
Following a dramatic escape from house arrest, Mr Chen is believed to be at the US embassy in Beijing.
Both Hillary Clinton and Timothy Geithner arrive in Beijing this week for the US-China strategic and economic dialogue.
The stage is set for a train wreck. It is in everyone's interests to avoid one.
That will be easier said than done.
Even if it were not an election year in the US, it would be difficult – and wrong – for an American president to hand a dissident back to a regime that systematically quashes the right to dissent.
China should recognise that politics makes it impossible for Barack Obama even to consider that option.
Mitt Romney would seize upon any sign of weakness by Mr Obama on human rights – and rightly so.
But America should also pay heed to Chinese sensitivities.
This latest booby trap comes amid a dramatic leadership transition in China that has seen the humiliation of Bo Xilai, the former party boss of Chongqing, and potential rival to Xi Jingping, China's next leader.
No one is quite sure whether Mr Bo's removal will be good for China's reformers.
But it is clear that America should do what it can to avoid giving ammunition to the hardliners.
Mr Chen should be allowed to leave China.
America must make this as low-key as possible.
It is important the dialogue takes place as scheduled.
The points of friction between the US and China remain wide and deep.
From China's persistent pegging of its currency at too low a rate to its foot-dragging – and worse – over North Korea, Syria and Iran, America needs China's co-operation in many areas.
Sceptics dismiss the dialogue as a talking shop.
But it is infinitely better than not talking.
And there are signs the process has improved co-operation on a number of fronts.
For example, Mr Geithner points out that China's exchange rate has appreciated by 40 per cent since 2005.
And China no longer automatically follows Russia's lead at the UN on Iran and other challenges.
Modest though these gains may be, it is important the two countries keep talking.
Mr Chen should be allowed to leave China without disrupting the conversation.