With barely two weeks to go before the August 2 deadline, brinkmanship in the tortuous debt-ceiling talks continues to carry Washington and the world closer to a US debt default.
According to an admittedly disputed account, an angry Barack Obama stalked out of a negotiating session this week. This shows how high tempers are running.
Whether that kerfuffle was part of the operatics one should expect before a last-minute deal is struck, or a sign of impending breakdown, is hard to say.
What is easy to say is that this is an astonishing, deplorable and unacceptable way for the US to conduct its affairs.
The blame lies increasingly with Tea Party Republicans in the House of Representatives.
To a greater or lesser degree, other factions in the budget dispute have signalled willingness to compromise. The Tea Party still wants to have everything its own way, regardless of the consequences.
Mr Obama has been brave.
In proposing a “grand bargain” to settle the issue until after next year's elections, he offered cuts in cherished programmes such as Medicare and Medicaid.
Some Republicans including John Boehner, the party's leader in the House, have said that extra revenues (never say “tax increases”) might be possible – a small concession that Democrats are determined to extract.
But Tea Party Republicans refuse to budge from demanding savage cuts and no new revenue.
Taken at their word, many want the row unresolved on August 2, either because they see the Treasury deadline as a feint, or because they believe that a “temporary” or “technical” default would send a useful message.
It has come to something when a powerful strand of Republican opinion sees the full faith and credit of the US government as a hostage in its feud with Democrats.
Observers have begun comparing US political dysfunction with that of Italy.
Judging by recent days, the comparison is unfair to Italy. Complaints from Treasury secretary Tim Geithner and other US officials about Europe's failure to resolve its own debt problems are hard to take seriously given the stalemate in Washington.
A deal can still be done, and should be.
But as the clock runs down, and each side suspects the other of bluffing, the risk of an accidental default increases.
Positions are now so entrenched that arcane legislative manoeuvres may be needed to blur responsibility and give each side what many value more highly than the country's standing in the markets: plausible deniability.
Such manoeuvres pose risks of their own, and would take time to execute.
Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, has proposed one such strategy which, for all its seeming absurdity, may be worth exploring.
Democrats and the White House evidently agree, since they have not denounced it.
Mr McConnell's device is a one-off mechanism allowing Mr Obama to propose raising the debt ceiling, the House to vote against it, and the president to veto that blocking resolution.
Mr McConnell's aim is to avoid a default (and the blame that would rightly accrue to the Republicans) while putting responsibility for an increase in public borrowing on Mr Obama's shoulders.
Many conservatives like the idea. Many Democrats could live with it.
The Tea Party sees it as dishonest dealing – which it is, as well as being a troubling piece of constitutional chicanery.
But in this case the end (avoiding default) may justify the means.
The question is whether the two sides could even agree not to agree.
There may not be time to bring a complex package together and have it pass legal and constitutional muster.
A straightforward deal would be better than constitutional chicanery.
But at this late hour, either would beat the alternative, which is, or ought to be, unthinkable.