The notion of “resource wars” has become a fashionable topic of debate in recent years. 
Shortages of oil, gas, minerals and water are supposed to portend a future of mounting international tensions.
Yet over the past few decades the global allocation of resources has been transformed, without a shot being fired.
The emergence of China as the world's largest net oil importer, marked by the US Energy Information Administration this week, is part of a wider shift away from the developed world and towards emerging economies.
In 1970, members of the OECD, the rich countries' club, consumed 75 per cent of the world's oil output. Today that proportion is below 50 per cent.
The way that those flows have been reallocated, as any economist would have predicted, has been through the price mechanism.
As emerging economies' demand has grown, oil prices have been pushed higher, encouraging consumers in rich countries to drive less, use more efficient cars and pursue alternative fuels such as natural gas.
In the US, high prices have also induced a supply response, in the shape of the shale oil boom, easing the transition.
The history of the 20th century shows that conflicts over resources are indeed possible, but since 1945 the big picture has been that the market has worked. 
For developed economies trying to accommodate China's growing hunger for resources, it is important to communicate that fact.
China's energy policy has been shaped by its suspicion that the oil market cannot in fact be trusted, and its supplies are constantly under threat. 
That conviction has encouraged Beijing to adopt undesirable policy positions, including a reluctance to join in international pressure on Iran. 
It also stokes tensions that really could end up in conflict, such as the competing claims to oil and gas rights in the South China Sea.
The US has not done a good job of allaying China's fears. 
The block on Chinese control of the Gulf of Mexico assets of Canada's Nexen signalled that its motives are still viewed with suspicion.
Tying countries together in trading relationships is no guarantee of peace, but a China with more confidence in its energy security would be a better international partner. 
It is an ever more important part of the global oil trade, and the US and other western countries should reassure Beijing that it will remain that way.