This week's landfall of hurricane Sandy in New York and surrounding areas is a reminder of nature's awesome power.
The storm wrought devastation on an epic scale, smashing homes and businesses, and inundating whole coastal districts, including parts of the nation's financial capital.
More than 70 lives have been lost.
As one might expect from a country with America's can-do spirit, the response has been impressive.
Not only have the emergency services performed heroics, the clean-up has proceeded apace.
Only days after much of New York's subway system was submerged under feet of water, large parts have returned to service.
But even this burst of resolve cannot disguise a bigger inconvenient truth: that New York and much of the eastern seaboard lie increasingly at nature's mercy.
New Yorkers do not need long memories to recall the last inundation.
Flood surges have become part of the warp and weft of city life.
Whether human activity is responsible for the extreme weather events that lie at the root of this, no one can dispute that they are occurring more frequently as a result of climate change.
Defending New York from the sea is no easy task.
The city is low-lying and sits on a series of islands.
Building a network of sea defences would be costly and take years.
But other societies have risen to challenges no less daunting.
After fearful floods inundated large parts of Holland in 1953, the Dutch built barriers across most of their main waterways.
So far this has thwarted a repetition.
New York and its hinterland account for about a third of US economic activity.
So the cost of Sandy-like storms in lost output is huge.
If climate change means “once-in-a-century” events recurring every two decades, the case for action will grow.
After all, the alternative is economic decline.
In the meantime, the US can also learn from the things that went right.
One is weather forecasting.
The eerie precision with which the meteorological services anticipated Sandy's path helped to limit the damage and allow the emergency services to prepare.
This capability – threatened with deterioration through neglect – must not be lost.
Sandy was no repetition of Katrina, the hurricane that devastated New Orleans seven years ago.
But it might have been.
In a world of more extreme weather, New York may have to accept that it can no longer get by with neglected infrastructure on a wing and a prayer.
One hopes this lesson is learnt before the next catastrophe.