Iceland, the first of many countries in the financial crisis to be submerged by its bloated banks, uniquely refused to make taxpayers pay for the follies of private bankers.
For this choice the country was bullied by Britain and sued by the Efta Surveillance Authority.
On Monday, the sorry saga ended as it should: with Iceland's unqualified and final victory in the Efta court.
When the Icelandic banking system disintegrated in 2008, the government divided banks into domestic and foreign parts.
In Landsbanki's case, foreign liabilities included deposits in its UK and Dutch Icesave branches.
When a bank run made the accounts inaccessible, Iceland's deposit guarantee scheme was overwhelmed by the total banking collapse.
London and The Hague cried foul; the UK even applied antiterrorism laws to freeze Landsbanki assets.
Four years and much bad blood later, UK and Dutch outlays to bail out their countries' Icesave depositors look set to be repaid in full by Landsbanki's estate.
But, not content with their place in the creditor queue, for years they pressured their small neighbour for a sovereign guarantee.
The conflation of the government's obligations with those of private banks was averted only thanks to Icelanders' fierce resistance in two referendums.
To take part in Europe's single banking market, states must make the sector set up and run a deposit insurance scheme.
Iceland's case is that this obligation is not a duty for the state itself to bail out failed banks' creditors, especially not when the failure is one of the entire system.
The court agreed, relying on the plain text of the directive and rejecting the fanciful reading advanced by Esa with UK, Dutch and Commission backing.
This is a victory for law and economic sense.
The ruling makes clear that EU law does not require taxpayers to bail out private banks, the mistake that proved so disastrous for Ireland yet still claims pride of place in European banking policy doctrine.
It also implicitly shows that if Iceland's deposit insurance scheme was inadequate under EU standards, so is that of every EU country.
In practice, the lesson is that if the crisis is big enough, no industry deposit insurance scheme can fend it off, and the state is on the hook until it can no longer afford to be.
The EU should use its reform of deposit insurance and bank resolution law to shrink the zone of state exposure as much as possible.
Reykjavik has been proved right in law;
Europe should admit that it had a point in policy as well.