Hardly a week goes by these days without some startling new development in the fields of cyberwarfare and cyberespionage.
This month senior US officials let it be known that President Barack Obama had personally authorised the deployment of the Stuxnet computer worm against Iran's nuclear programme.
At about the same time, stories emerged about Flame, an even more sophisticated virus that in May 2012 penetrated the computers of high-ranking Iranian officials.
This week the head of Britain's security service MI5 sounded the alarm about growing cyberespionage by Russia and China against western governments and companies.
In his view the amount of activity being undertaken by these states – and by other actors – is “astonishing”.
These developments can only add to the perception many have had for some time: that aggressive cyberactivity – whether it involves espionage or the destruction of infrastructure – is now becoming one of the world's biggest security threats.
Military chiefs today describe cyber as the fifth domain of warfare after land, sea, air and space.
The idea that a nation could one day cripple another state's infrastructure through cyberwarfare is not inconceivable.
But what can the world do to stop this new arms race spinning out of control before it is too late?
The instinctive response of many is that world powers must club together and agree some rules of the cybergame.
The world clearly needs such rules, mirroring those that have for decades governed the use and development of nuclear and conventional arms.
In recent years, several attempts at writing international cyberlaws have been made. But there has been little success.
In part, this is because China and Russia want to use such norms to control the flow of information over the web, an idea the US rightly abhors.
But the biggest difficulty establishing any rules is that the source of most cyberattacks is anonymous.
The Stuxnet story provides the only example we have of a nation bragging about its cyberwarfare operations.
These obstacles do not mean nations should stop trying to establish rules.
They could, for example, start defining some critical infrastructures that they would vow never to attack.
But for now, the only hope for governments and businesses is to continue boosting resilience against the unknown.
Companies, in particular, need to know just how much intellectual property is being lost to Chinese and Russian espionage.
What is also needed, however, is some honesty.
In his speech this week, Jonathan Evans, the MI5 chief, lamented the way “vulnerabilities in the internet are being exploited aggressively by . . . states”.
He was clearly pointing the finger at Russia and China.
But after Stuxnet, such criticism could just as easily be directed at the US, Britain's chief ally.
Until governments start to address these tricky questions – and be more open about their capabilities – the struggle to agree the terms of engagement in cyberspace will not advance very far.