Cometh the crisis, cometh the saviour.
Or, in the acronym-rich world of global economic governance, cometh the IFIs. (International financial institutions, that is.)
At least, that is how it has worked before.
Great changes in the way that the economy was regulated and managed were often provoked by cataclysmic upheaval.
It was to finance military expeditions in Europe that the English invented central banking in 1694; it was to fund the Napoleonic wars that Britain invented the modern income tax.
And it was the Great Depression, followed by the second world war, that produced the framework we broadly have today: the International Monetary Fund for crisis lending, the World Bank for development aid and the World Trade Organisation to negotiate and arbitrate the rules of trade.
During the past 10 years, the shortcomings of that set-up in dealing with the problems of the modern economy became all too apparent.
But despite a torrent of rhetoric about a new Bretton Woods, the world ends the decade with much the same system as it began.
The lesson is that institutional fiddling is not a substitute for political courage.
In the area of trade, the decade has been a long exercise in proving that you should not launch trade rounds unless you mean it.
The so-called ""Doha"" round of talks were begun mainly as a gesture of global solidarity in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks in 2001.
But the folly of embarking on such a big undertaking without strong business and public support became increasingly clear.
Few were robustly in favour of Doha, but plenty were against it.
The round also prefigured one of the phenomena of the decade — the world's large emerging economies beginning to assert their influence.
Discontent from developing countries caused the 2003 ministerial meeting in Cancún to collapse.
Thereafter India and Brazil, which were given a role in the inner core of the negotiations, continued to refuse unacceptable deals.
Other institutions and processes fared little better in trying to co- ordinate.
Strings of promises on overseas aid wrung out of rich donor nations at the 2002 UN Millennium Summit and the 2005 Gleneagles G8 summit were broken as soon as they had been made.
Meanwhile, as global economic imbalances continued to build up, the International Monetary Fund was given the task of trying to broker a rebalancing deal and press China to float its currency.
But it became woefully clear that while the fund could still do crisis lending, its influence was limited to those countries in hock to it.
Even after the worst financial and economic shock since the Depression, and much grand talk of a new Bretton Woods, little reform has happened.
The IMF has been given more money: fine, but not dramatic.
The regulators' forum now includes more emerging markets: sure, but the test will be the rigour of rules that emerge.
And although the Group of Seven rich countries has largely been replaced by the Group of 20, which includes the systemically significant emerging markets, so far it has not distinguished itself.
At the G20 meeting in Washington in November 2008 the global governance rhetoric rose to fever pitch.
But the G20's credibility was immediately undermined by a no-protectionism pledge that was broken within 36 hours and yet another promise to finish the Doha round that was also broken.
The decade shows that political problems cannot be solved with technocratic solutions.
No amount of shuffling the pack to include the emerging markets will make any difference unless they, and the rich countries, are aware what tough decisions have to be made, and are willing to face their domestic constituencies.
The crisis has not produced a new world order. Only political will can do that.