There are many good reasons why Giorgio Napolitano, Italy's head of state, has turned to Enrico Letta in his attempt to break the political deadlock in Rome.
The deputy leader of the centre-left Democrats comes from the moderate, Catholic wing of his party.
His reputation as a bridge-builder will be handy as he seeks to reach out to Silvio Berlusconi to put together a grand coalition government.
It is still possible that Mr Letta will not succeed in forming an executive.
Anyway, his government is unlikely to last for long.
The Democrats and the People of Liberty are bitterly divided.
Silvio Berlusconi is an unreliable coalition partner, as he showed last December when he unexpectedly pulled the plug on Mario Monti's technocratic government.
The Democrats are split and face a momentous change of leadership after the resignation of their former chief, Pier Luigi Bersani.
If Mr Letta succeeds in his first task, he should be realistic about what his government can achieve.
His first speech as prime minister designate talked about the need to change the EU's mantra of universal austerity.
While this message is sound, a weak Italian government stands little chance of getting Germany and other creditor countries to change tack.
Mr Letta should prioritise political reform over changes in economic policy.
True, after two decades of near-stagnation, Italy needs growth.
This requires new labour laws and spending cuts to finance reductions in business and payroll taxes.
But the economic programmes of the mainstream parties are too different.
It will be hard to build consensus.
Conversely, the Democrats and People of Liberty may find it easier to change the electoral law, which remains unpopular among voters.
They should also cut the cost of the bloated political system by reducing both the number of MPs and their wages.
Finally, it is time to overcome Italy's byzantine bicameral system.
Each bill has to pass through both houses of parliament before becoming law, an unnecessarily lengthy process.
Some of these reforms could also appeal to the Five Star Movement, which will not support Mr Letta.
The movement, set up by the comedian Beppe Grillo, received almost 9m votes in the general elections as it pledged to shake up Italy's political system.
Ideally, Italy needs a strong government to pass economic reforms.
But this is not available.
Mr Letta should aim for a new political settlement, which can pave the way for meaningful economic change.