In November, Barack Obama returned from Delhi with $10bn worth of deals with Indian business.
China's premier, Wen Jiabao has gone one better. The agreements Mr Wen struck this week in India total $16bn.
The burgeoning of India and China's economic ties is important and welcome.
A similar improvement in their political relations would be better still.
Of course, economic relations are not perfect.
Although it has increased by a factor of 230 in the past 20 years, bilateral trade is still low at $60bn.
It is also unbalanced: China runs a huge surplus in its dealings with India.
And Delhi frets that the relationship is semi-colonial: India sends China raw materials, which it returns as manufactured goods.
These problems, however, are not insurmountable for determined politicians.
But even without political help, economic links are bound to improve.
Apart from being neighbours, China and India account for 40 per cent of the world's population.
As their economies grow, it is inevitable that Asia's twin giants will do ever more business.
A matching improvement in political ties, however, will require more effort.
The two countries have diametrically opposed political systems. And a war in 1962 left a legacy of mistrust on both sides of the Himalayas.
Three issues, in particular, need careful handling.
China claims Arunachal Pradesh, a province in north-eastern India.
Fourteen rounds of talks have failed to deliver a solution and India has raised a battalion to defend the province.
Territorial quarrels are not easily resolved.
But China has settled border disputes with Russia, Mongolia, Vietnam and Burma.
A deal with India should not be impossible.
Success would build trust, which in turn would help ease the second source of tension: Indian fears about China's close ties with Pakistan.
The third bone of contention is water.
The headwaters of various Indian rivers are on the Chinese side of the Himalayas.
India fears that China's dam-building projects may deprive it of its water.
A minimal condition for managing these issues is for both countries to talk more frequently and openly.
Mr Wen announced this week that high-level meetings between the two countries will increase.
This is a good start.
Both countries have good reason to go further.
A better bilateral relationship will enable them to punch their weight in world affairs – from trade to reform of multilateral organisations – where their interests coincide.
That is a prize worth pursuing.