Russians have spoken, and more loudly than expected.
The fall of nearly a quarter in the ruling United Russia party's share of Sunday's parliamentary vote shows how rapidly citizens are wearying of the political and economic system created by Vladimir Putin.
That this protest was registered in spite of the panoply of dirty tricks used by the authorities – from psychological pressure on workers to vote for the ruling party to repeat voting by busloads of hired hands – makes it all the more potent.
The spell Mr Putin cast over Russia for the past 11 years has been broken.
This does not imperil his plans to return as president next March, if only because the authorities control who can stand against him.
But Moscow has since Sunday seen its biggest opposition rallies in years; more are planned in other cities.
The leadership must think hard how to respond.
One option is the iron fist.
But strengthening authoritarianism would be dangerous.
Attempting, say, to restrict internet access for the 51m Russians who use it could precipitate exactly the kind of protests the authorities seek to avoid.
The enlightened response would be to accept that while Mr Putin may not have changed since 2000, Russia has.
Sunday's election showed a richer, more sophisticated electorate demanding change and a greater say in its own future.
The best way for Mr Putin to rebrand himself would be through genuine reforms.
He should remove the taint of cronyism and sleaze which hangs around all levels of the system, and made the blogger-inspired nickname for United Russia of the “party of swindlers and thieves” so difficult to shake.
A good start would be a shake-up of the government, the presidential administration, and of regional governors.
Political loosening should follow to allow modern, non-puppet parties to take root, in place of ageing communist and nationalist parties that currently provide the only alternative to United Russia.
And economic reforms to lessen the boom-bust dependency on energy prices must finally be initiated.
The risk is that the conservative Mr Putin instead simply attempts to muddle through and buy support with cosmetic reforms, a populist spending surge, and increasing anti-western rhetoric.
Recent renewed sabre-rattling over US missile defence plans may be a foretaste.
That would be deeply damaging for the country.
It also threatens to make Russia under a weakened Mr Putin a trickier partner for the west than it was even at the peak of his powers.