In the chain of Europe's sovereign debt contagion the biggest domino of all is teetering.
Twice in a week, Rome's 10-year cost of credit has broken through the 7 per cent mark.
Should debt markets close the door on Italy altogether, the euro would be in lethal danger.
It is understandable that those calling for a “big bazooka” are baying louder.
They want the European Central Bank to throw away the fig leaf for its bond purchase programme (which it calls a temporary fix of the monetary transmission process) and expose as much of its balance sheet to the sovereign debt market as it takes to keep bond prices up for good.
No matter how big the bazooka, a policy of shooting first and asking questions later is rarely wise.
In a sense, of course, only the central bank has enough firepower definitively to end the run on eurozone sovereign debt.
This is why the Financial Times has accepted the need for bond buying in extremis.
Yet even Frankfurt's inexhaustible fount of liquidity will not put out the crisis in the absence of a political agreement that the ECB cannot provide, and which it may even undermine.
Any enthusiasm for central bank bazookas should be tempered by the policy's failure so far.
The ECB holds at least 20 per cent of the Greek, Portuguese and Irish debt, yet yields remain painfully high.
(In Ireland they are falling, more thanks to Dublin than Frankfurt) This suggests that if the ECB accepted the goal of reining in Italian yields, it would have to commit to much more – perhaps as much as half of the outstanding debt.
Second, the EU treaty bans ECB lending to governments.
No policymaker should wear legalistic blinkers; trivial laws should not bind when disaster looms.
But this is no trivial law. It is a central part of the contract between the members of the monetary union: their agreement not transfer risk or resources through money creation.
One must take more than a few deep breaths before flagrantly violating it.
This is not just to respect the law, but – as Bundesbank president Jens Weidmann pointed out in a Financial Times interview – because it upends predictability by leading citizens and markets to ask which law will be broken next.
Finally, after buying up bonds, what is the next move?
Mario Monti's enemies are already taking shots at Italy's new prime minister.
If he falls, what is the chance that a successor, faced with an ECB guarantee to keep yields low, will pursue much-needed reforms?
These economic questions ought to give bazooka fans pause.
The political difficulties they raise are even more troubling.
An express violation of the EU treaty is certain to lead to challenges in both German and European courts.
A large-scale bond purchase policy that fails – and even more one that works but allows Italy or others to halt their reforms – could conceivably drive Germany out of the euro.
Europe's problem is not economic but political: if – but only if – it finds the will to end the crisis, it has the means to do so without overturning its own constitution.
The countries that share a monetary union must find the trust needed to sustain popular acceptance of both the very tough policies troubled states have to undertake and the resources to buy them time from stronger countries.
This need not involve full-fledged fiscal union.
But it cannot be done without rekindling a solidarity Europe is close to snuffing out.
Such statecraft is in the hands only of elected leaders.
Institutionally, the solution must involve the crisis management tools controlled by governments.
The ECB cannot substitute for them politically, but there is a legal way for it to help them financially: to turn the eurozone's rescue funds into a bank.
The treaty exempts state-owned banks from the ban on ECB credit.
As a bank, the European financial stability facility would be able to access ECB liquidity in a refinancing crisis.
This backstop would end worries among the private investors it now struggles to court, and would allow much simpler ways to leverage its funds than what is now planned.
Unlike an independent central bank, the EFSF can be instructed to lend according to conditions set by citizens' political representatives.
And turning governments' guarantees for the EFSF into paid-up capital – which they have already promised to do for the European Stability Mechanism – would finally send the right signal to markets.
Things have changed since German policymakers rashly rejected this idea last summer.
Chancellor Angela Merkel has appealed to her party to build a stronger political union, step by step.
Whatever her destination, here is one step Ms Merkel should not wait to take.