Entering 2012, with many geo-political fears on the horizon, equity investors might be expected to lie awake at night worrying about another stock market crash.
But that is not what is bothering them at all. Instead, many worry about the possibility of another market rally to match the great rebound that began in the spring of 2009.
This is because the investment managers' incentives are badly skewed.
They are not paid to make money, or even to beat the market. Rather, they are paid not to do worse than their peers.
Going down with the market would not be so bad for them; missing out on a rally like in 2009, when stocks doubled in barely two years, would be catastrophic for their career.
That is the logic of the way they are paid – usually, as a proportion of their assets under management – and of the way they are judged – against their peers and public stock indices.
The result of the investment industry's misaligned incentives, a contributory factor to the financial crisis which has so far eluded any attempt at a remedy, is that equities enter 2012 looking overvalued.
Such mispricing is only likely to lead to misallocation of capital later.
In present circumstances, nobody needs that.
It is possible to argue against this.
Earnings multiples, the most popular measure of stocks' value, fell steadily during 2011.
At 13 times historic earnings, multiples on the S&amp;P 500 in the US are as low as they have been in two decades, barring a few months during the immediate aftermath of the Lehman Brothers collapse.
There is therefore an argument that shares already discount many of the political and macroeconomic fears in the environment.
But this ignores the performance of corporate earnings.
Profits have made a complete recovery following the Lehman disaster.
This is driven by record margins; in the US, corporate profits as a proportion of gross domestic product are at their highest ever (although this effect diminishes if financial companies are excluded).
Margins have a strong historical tendency to revert to the mean. Earnings multiples, over history, have tended to adjust for the corporate profit cycle, falling when earnings appear cyclically high, as at present.
Current multiples are not, therefore, as cheap as they appear.
Companies' strong profits, and the record cash levels on their balance sheets, also raise the risk of a reaction.
Both shareholders and governments expect to grab a share of that cash, either through dividends or taxes.
And if margins are unsustainably high, as appears to be the case, earnings growth can only come from robust rises in revenues, which would depend on a buoyant economy.
And finally, to make stocks look cheap history must be analysed selectively.
Compared with the last 30 years, largely a period of unparalleled prosperity, stocks appear to offer good value.
But earnings multiples were lower than 13 for most of the decade that followed the oil price shock of 1973.
Further back in history, it was the norm for stocks to be cheaper in terms of yield than bonds, as now, because they were thought to be riskier.
It is hard, therefore, to avoid the conclusion that stocks are levitating at over-inflated prices, thanks to the herd-like behaviour and collective fear of investment institutions.
Record close correlations between stocks suggest that their due diligence into corporate fundamentals is minimal, and imply that mispricings abound.
Rather than attempt to exploit such anomalies, investors are worrying about the macroeconomic environment, and trading via indexed investments.
But because of the fear of another big rally, equities – particularly in the US – have avoided the cathartic sell-off needed to squeeze out speculative excesses.
Such inefficiently priced equity capital adds to the list of reasons to fear another market or financial accident in 2012.