Philipp Hildebrand did the right thing in stepping down as Switzerland's central bank governor.
The alternative was to compound the reputational damage caused by his family's trading in and out of francs around the Swiss National Bank's exchange rate cap.
The resignation clears the way for the SNB to remove any doubts about its banking and monetary policy, which it must now promptly do.
As a policymaker, Mr Hildebrand has been courageous.
In banking regulation, he joined the side of progress by throwing the SNB's support behind policies such as the high capital ratio requirements known as the Swiss finish.
A country so reliant on banking owes thanks to a central banker who sees and says that the national interest is not always identical to the interests of Switzerland's two big investment banks.
(Elsewhere, the Swiss finish gives the lie to claims that tougher capital rules drive banks away.)
Choosing actively to manage the currency also showed Mr Hildebrand as a central banker for the real economy and not only for financiers.
Activism earned Mr Hildebrand enemies: bankers; cantons that lazily relied on SNB dividends suspended when its currency trades incurred paper losses; monetary purists nestling in the Swiss People party's (SVP) populist ranks.
Every central banker must avoid even the suspicion of wrongdoing.
One with Mr Hildebrand's enemies must adopt stricter standards still.
In this affair, however, Mr Hildebrand's conduct was naïve at best.
By his own admission, he cannot prove that he did not know of his wife's trading out of francs weeks before the cap was introduced.
He has not explained the reverse trade a month later.
These suspicions were not going to go away.
But the spotlight can now move on.
The SNB itself and PwC, the advisory firm that carried out an investigation on the central bank's behalf, judged the Hildebrands' conduct unproblematic under the SNB's code of conduct.
Either the code is too lax or it was too lightly interpreted; neither is satisfactory.
Questions should also be asked of the SVP and of Christoph Blocher, a key party figure who brought the information to light.
Blowing the whistle may be legitimate; a political smear campaign is not.
But what matters most is SNB policy.
Mr Hildebrand's colleagues and his successor should make clear that the SNB's stance on regulation and currency policy are unaffected by the governor's resignation.
Mr Hildebrand's good work as a central banker should not fall victim to his personal misstep.