The Bric quartet – Brazil, China, India and Russia – own the equivalent of about €3,000bn in foreign exchange reserves.
Combine this immense sum with the resources of European governments and the European Central Bank, and there emerges the seductive vision of a swift and painless end to the eurozone's sovereign debt and banking crisis.
This vision is a mirage.
The Bric countries undoubtedly fear that Europe's troubles may soon spread across the oceans and destabilise their economies and financial systems.
Such apprehensions may spur the quartet, especially China, to extend some support to the eurozone – at a price, of course.
Nevertheless the fundamental responsibility for overcoming the crisis must and will rest with the Europeans themselves.
The Bric label disguises the fact that the four countries, with which South Africa is sometimes associated, do not really speak with one voice on the world economic stage, let alone co-ordinate their actions in advance.
Indian officials were surprised when Brazil proposed on Tuesday that Bric finance ministers and central bank governors should use a meeting in Washington next week to discuss joint action in support of the eurozone.
Yet the potential political benefits of such an initiative are obvious.
It is a pertinent reminder that the Bric nations are aware not only of the importance of financial market stability, but of the redistribution of global economic power from the west to the east and south.
China, as the holder of the world's largest foreign reserves, has a clear interest in preserving the eurozone's stability.
From its launch in 1999, the euro has been viewed in Beijing as a potential long-term counterweight to the dollar.
China is heavily invested in US government debt, alarmed at what it sees as fiscal debauchery in Washington, and frustrated at the party political rancour that has impeded efforts to return the public finances to order.
All this makes it conceivable that China will buy limited amounts of European sovereign debt in a bid to lift market sentiment in favour of the euro and earn international political credit for itself.
But China does not hand out free lunches, and Europe has no right to expect any.
Beijing is already linking support for the eurozone to official European recognition of China as a market economy.
China is also making the point that the Europeans need urgently to get their act together by mastering the debt crisis and reforming their economies.
It is a message that is hard to disagree with.