China's challenging of an Indian naval vessel in the SouthChina Sea is another step in its campaign to assert maritime claims in the region.
Despite numerous spats with smaller regional powers, such as the Philippines, Vietnam and Malaysia, China has never before challenged Asia's other rising power at sea.
China's assertiveness should come as no surprise.
Its economic surge both encourages and enables it to take a more energetic approach to securing the raw materials and shipping lanes on which its future prosperity depends.
Given that untold quantities of crude oil and natural gas lie beneath the contested waters of the SouthChina Sea, clashing claims are all but inevitable.
This makes finding a means of resolving such disputes all the more important.
Ideally, this would take the form of a multilateral settlement of the competing territorial claims of the littoral states.
The 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea – to which China is a party – provides the basis for such an agreement in the case of the SouthChina Sea.
But progress has so far been stymied by China's unwillingness to submit its extravagant claims to arbitration by third parties.
This hesitancy is part of China's broader reluctance to accept a global rules-based system – whether this means laws to combat climate change or treaties governing shared rivers.
It is also a pity.
As a manufacturing hub with increasingly deep economic ties with the rest of the world, China has much to gain from the stability such a system provides.
Just as pertinently, Beijing's penchant for sabre-rattling is not cost free.
As recent moves by the Philippines and Vietnam to shore up their relationships with the US show, Chinese assertiveness tends to unite other countries against it.
Only a very narrow view of China's strategic interest could construe its posturing in the SouthChina Sea as worthwhile.
While China needs to match rhetoric about its peaceful intentions with actions, the world needs to draw China into dialogue and international commitments.
The notion of making China a “responsible stakeholder” in world affairs has a hackneyed ring. But it is still the best option available.