As long as China's leaders continue to resist a nominal appreciation of the renminbi, a higher domestic general inflation rate is an ineluctable – and largely desirable – result.
The trend in Chinese prices points increasingly upward: yearly inflation was 5.1 per cent in November, up from 4.4 per cent in October.
The uptick is partly due to food prices, which grew by 11.7 per cent in the year to November, up from 10.1 per cent in October.
Non-food prices, in contrast, were a mere 1.9 per cent higher than a year before.
Food price inflation is a nightmare haunting any government – and rulers as insecure as those in Beijing are the most easily rattled of all.
The strong impact of food prices on general inflation serves as a useful reminder of what a poor country China still remains.
Beijing is vigilant to the social unrest food costs can spark.
No wonder: its authoritarianism is ill-equipped to let people air grievances peacefully.
Global food commodities markets are one cause, but domestic Chinese conditions matter too.
These are reassuring.
Many factors driving up vegetable and pork prices are reversible, and producers are already reacting to higher prices.
Beijing has corralled banks into an extraordinary lending spree with clear inflationary effects – but this is within Beijing's means to undo.
Provided food price growth slows down, China's government should be relaxed about general inflation.
Chances of a stronger renminbi are hampered by Beijing's refusal to do anything that can be interpreted as doing another's bidding.
So relative price levels must do the work of real exchange rate appreciation.
A consistent gap between US and Chinese inflation rates, say of 5 per cent, could be the smoothest way to unwind the perverse financial imbalance between the two nations.
The implied rate for China, some seven per cent, would be consistent with the country's internal development.
China's great leap forward in productivity – annual total factor productivity growth touched 3 per cent before the crisis – reflects its role as the workshop of the world.
But wealth created by manufacturing prowess finds its way into non-tradeable sectors and pushes prices up there.
Economists know it as the Balassa-Samuelson effect: persistent inflation is the flip side of a secular manufacturing boom.
Still, Beijing must address inflation's most disruptive effects.
Special attention must be paid to food costs, but also to capital markets: low bank savings returns already encourage a shady parallel credit system.
State industrial capitalism will sooner or later need more regulated financial capitalism as well.