For years, a confluence of trends has been pointing to a referendum on the UK's membership of the EU: the burgeoning euroscepticism of the British public, the changing nature of the EU, the election of a Conservative-led government in 2010, and the sheer passage of time since Britons last had a say in 1975.
Champions of a vote include supporters of membership, such as this newspaper.
So although David Cameron's promise yesterday of a referendum in 2017 provoked rapture from his party, he was only confirming the inevitable.
The real story of the prime minister's speech was what he said would precede the plebiscite: the negotiation of a “new settlement” for the UK in the EU.
He was vague on detail but identified two broad ambitions.
First, he wants to win “safeguards” to prevent the integrating eurozone marginalising non-euro countries.
This is not only a reasonable assertion of British interests but a necessary measure to stop the single market fragmenting.
It deserves a fair hearing from other EU members, especially Germany, which prize the integrity of the 500m-strong market.
The second of Mr Cameron's goals is very different.
He wants the UK to be “free of the spurious regulation” associated with the EU.
He is right that much of the legislation that emanates from Brussels erodes the continent's competitiveness.
There is no leader who grasps the urgency of liberal economic reform in Europe like Mr Cameron, whose speech was at its best when it warned that a flabby EU faced decline.
But the prospect of repatriating real powers from Brussels may prove fanciful.
Tories sometimes conflate the single market, which imposes common regulation, with a free-trade zone.
Mr Cameron will find the rest of the EU rather clear about the distinction.
The notion of the UK unpicking old treaties and enjoying access to the market without observing its laws will provoke disbelief not only in France, which has never shared the UK's liberal take on Europe, but Germany, which broadly does.
Berlin rightly fears that exemptions for the UK would spur demands from others.
The very thing exalted by both Berlin and London, the internal market, is imperilled by the second of Mr Cameron's ambitions.
He should not raise hopes that cannot be met, even if he returns to office in 2015.
The risk is he will be left with a disappointed party in 2017, and memories of a speech that was smarter tactically than strategically.