In a fortnight Barack Obama will submit his last budget before the election.
Let us hope it improves on last week's State of the Union address.
To be sure, America's tax system is unfair and needs to be reformed.
With the exception of the 30 per cent minimum tax on millionaires, which smacked of election-year gimmickry, Mr Obama's proposals were too timid.
Much like Bill Clinton in the 1990s, Mr Obama is slipping into a habit of fiddling with the tax system rather than trying to overhaul it.
The US tax code cries out for simplification.
Mr Obama offers only to add to its complexity.
His proposals disappointed on two important counts.
First, by downplaying fiscal reform, Mr Obama ducked America's biggest challenge.
That may be understandable given that last year Washington only narrowly avoided a default in what would have been the biggest unforced error in memory.
Yet that is no excuse for inaction.
It is not too late to pick up on last year's Simpson-Bowles plan,which would have broadened the tax base and abolished most exemptions.
The report had its flaws – notably putting a 21 per cent ceiling on spending as a share of gross dom-estic product.
No government can operate under such constraints.
But it offered a good basis to tackle America's long-term deficit while making the tax system simpler and more pro-growth.
If the president has a better proposal, he should offer it before November.
Second, Mr Obama is guilty of small-bore tokenism.
It may make electoral sense to scatter more tax breaks on high-tech manufacturers, clean energy producers, small businesses, companies that are “re-shoring” and other attractive-sounding causes.
But the real victors will be the lawyers and accountants.
The urge to tinker is a mark of impotence.
Together these measures add up to far less than a sum of their parts.
Mr Obama's stated goals are good – to boost jobs and investment in the US economy, and spread the tax burden more equitably.
But there are far better ways of achieving them.
By eliminating most tax loopholes, for example, he could reduce the headline personal and corporate tax rates and still boost revenues.
Ronald Reagan did this in 1986.
Mr Obama should champion it in 2012.
He should also let George W. Bush's tax cuts expire at the end of this year.
Likewise, the system could be made fairer and more efficient by taxing debt and equity at the same rate.
Equalising the capital gains tax – and scrapping the “carried interest” loophole for investment income – would also bring political benefits.
Like many in America's top 1 per cent, Mitt Romney pays an effective a rate of about 15 per cent – far below many middle-class Americans.
Most of his money was made at Bain Capital, which, like all private equity groups, benefits from a federal debt interest subsidy.
It should be eliminated.
Instead Mr Obama offered a minimum tax on the wealthy and a similar floor on companies that keep their earnings offshore.
Rather than address the underlying flaws, Mr Obama came up with more ad hoc fixes.
Without a doubt, Mr Romney's tax plan is worse.
He would reduce the corporate tax rate without scrapping loopholes.
And he would require draconian spending cuts to make up for the lost revenue – particularly since he would ring fence defence spending.
Mr Romney's plan would add to the deficit while making the system less progressive.
In its favour, it is at least innocent of the charge of timidity.
All of which makes Mr Obama's caution harder to fathom.
Sooner or later America will have its fiscal reckoning.
Instead of playing to the electoral gallery, Mr Obama should offer a bold vision for fiscal overhaul.
In politics, as in business, it is always better to stay ahead of the curve.