Richard Nixon once said that Republican presidential hopefuls should head to the right in the primaries and tack like mad back to the centre for the general election.
The current field of eight Republican aspirants is certainly fulfilling the first half of Nixon's dictum.
Most of the contenders, including the former Speaker Newt Gingrich and the Minnesota lawmaker, Michelle Bachmann, are trying to appeal to the Tea Party's pure ancestral faith.
Their core message is: slash taxes; cut spending; scrap regulations; and sack Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Fed.
In one of the debates Ms Bachmann suggested that a single cent on the dollar in taxes amounted to federal theft.
Ron Paul, the Texas congressman, continues his crusade to shut down virtually any role for the federal government.
And Rick Santorum promises zero taxes on manufacturing.
Perhaps fortunately, none of the above has much of a chance.
But they have enough sway over the debate to ensure that whichever candidate does secure the nomination will face an unusually long haul back to the centre.
Among the three who are in with a real chance, Herman Cain has struck out most boldly.
The former pizza supremo's “999” plan, which would reduce business and individual taxes to
9 per cent and levy a new federal sales tax at the same rate, is at least eye-catching.
With almost 70,000 pages in code, any reform of the US federal tax system should aim to simplify.
Alas, Mr Cain's approach offers a cure worse than the disease.
At a time when US middle class income continues to fall, “999” would involve a massive shift of the burden from the better-off to the rest.
Not only would it be unfair. It would also be bad for growth.
Since the poor have a far higher marginal propensity to
consume than the wealthy, Mr Cain's plan would kill demand in the economy.
Yet it has provided a useful benchmark for the debate.
In contrast, Rick Perry, the Texas governor, whose decline in the polls over the last month has been matched only by Mr Cain's rise, offers almost no specifics.
Apart from a “drill baby drill” energy policy, which he estimates will create 1.2m jobs, Mr Perry's main thrust is to return power to the states – “to make Washington as inconsequential in your life as I can”.
Mr Perry's website devotes a sum total of 345 words to jobs and the budget. Unless he can come
up with something credible he deserves to languish in the polls.
Which leaves Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts.
If Mr Perry is reticent, Mr Romney is gushing.
The candidate's 59-point plan to revive the US economy runs to 160 pages.
Mr Romney's focus on the plight of the middle class is good politics and could potentially turn into good economics.
But for all its detail,