Governments across the world always come under political pressure to impose regulations on business to combat new health hazards, whether those dangers happen to be real or imaginary.
Lawmakers rarely manage to reconcile completely the interests of groups that are lobbying for and against any proposed new rule.
Yet as 2014 begins, senior government officials in many states might consider a new year's resolution to assess the evidence of health risks in a more coldly scientific manner than they currently do.
Too often, emotions and entrenched political views trump scientific objectivity when it comes to the setting of rules.
Take the vexed issue of the neonicotinoid pesticides blamed for the worldwide decline in bee populations.
A partial ban of these pesticides recently took effect in Europe, and environmental campaigners are pushing for similar action in the US.
Yet the scientific case against “neonics” is far from convincing.
Yes, they kill bees under some conditions but there is no convincing evidence that they are the main cause of the decline.
Many factors are putting bees under pressure, including disease and the declining floral diversity of the countryside as a result of modern agriculture.
The possible downsides of losing neonics include lower crop yields and increased use of older pesticides that might be more harmful to bees in the long term.
The rapid growth in popularity of e-cigarettes provides another recent example of the need for science to guide regulation.
The evidence suggests that “vaping” offers an excellent option for stopping people smoking and therefore tackling the catastrophic pandemic of tobacco-related disease.
E-cigarettes deliver nicotine without the far more toxic mixture of other chemicals generated by smouldering tobacco.
Even so, many regulators are banning e-cigarettes or encumbering them with so many restrictions that they are unlikely to be taken up on the scale required to cut significantly the number of smokers.
Some seem to feel, in an almost puritanical way, that smokers must stop inhaling completely rather than being offered a safer alternative to cigarettes.
Others are put off by the fact that big bad tobacco companies are selling e-cigarettes.
A more scientific solution would be to regulate e-cigarettes in a way that ensures quality control and monitors their health effects, but enables manufacturers to compete with tobacco on price and availability.
Pharmaceuticals are one of the most important regulated sectors.
And here, too, some scientific rebalancing is certainly required. This is needed to reduce the regulatory costs involved in developing new medicines such as antibiotics, where there is a huge need for innovation but the potential financial reward for companies is relatively modest.
Research into personalised medicine should also have an impact on regulatory practice.
This is because it is beginning to show who is most likely to benefit from and, conversely, most likely to be harmed by specific drugs.
This should make it easier to avoid the total withdrawal of a medicine when unexpected side-effects appear.
Instead, regulators should be more willing to inform patients and their doctors about a drug's risks and benefits, leaving them to decide whether to use it.
Emphasising a scientific rather than a crudely political approach to regulation does not necessarily imply less rulemaking.
But in any evaluation, the first step should always be to determine whether a proposed rule really does benefit public health.
At the same time, authorities should take a long hard look before adding another thread of regulation that would be difficult to remove once woven into the ever-thickening fabric of commercial law.