Li Keqiang, China's new premier, spoke of “a handshake across the Himalayas” on his visit to New Delhi last week.
He came with promises to boost trade and cultural ties.
But it will take more than a few trade deals to overcome the suspicion with which India regards its eastern neighbour.
That mistrust was inflamed last month by the incursion of Chinese troops into a disputed area on the Himalayan border.
It is not clear whether this was a deliberate move by Beijing to give muscle to Mr Li's visit, or just one of many encroachments that both sides commit on a regular basis (though this one was unusually prolonged).
Either way, it was badly misjudged.
Such actions cast doubt on Beijing's claim that it wants better relations with its neighbour.
Beijing may be the more powerful economic partner in the relationship, but India is strategically important.
China does not want India to fall under US influence as Washington's foreign policy focus shifts to Asia.
The two countries also have shared interests in the Indian Ocean across which so much trade passes.
And the border remains China's biggest frontier challenge and the one most likely to spark conflict – whether by design or miscalculation.
There are signs that Beijing wants to set aside such tensions to focus on closer economic ties.
The delicate issues of China's support for Pakistan and India's for the Dalai Lama were left for another day.
Nor did Beijing insist that the formal joint statement made at the end of the visit cite the one-China policy – in effect, its claims on Taiwan and Tibet.
This is encouraging, as better relations will not just benefit both countries' economies but could give an important fillip to global trade.
However, certain conditions have to be met.
India complains about its near $41bn trade deficit with China.
It is trying to rein in imports by creating bureaucratic obstacles for Chinese exporters.
Instead, it should focus on the factors that hinder its own exports.
India's manufacturing industry is uncompetitive. It does not make products that Chinese or Indian consumers want.
New Delhi has also been slow to open up to foreign investment.
Lower Indian wages could be a big draw to Chinese manufacturers, if investment barriers are lowered.
Mr Li's trip may not have doused the suspicions that simmer behind every smile and namaste.
But deeper economic ties are a good place to start, as long as both sides play fair.
The greater the trade, the better the chance that trust will follow in its wake.