It takes more than two speeches to overcome decades of enmity. 
Yet this week President Barack Obama and Hassan Rouhani, his Iranian counterpart, offered the most hopeful signs to date that the crisis over Iran's nuclear capability might still be resolved by diplomacy rather than force.
In his speech to the UN General Assembly, Mr Rouhani declared Iran was ready to engage “immediately in time-limited, results-oriented talks” aimed at removing mutual suspicion through “full transparency”. 
Mr Obama, for his part, acknowledged the Iranian right to “peaceful nuclear energy”. 
Mr Rouhani's speech was in many ways a restatement of the traditional Iranian position, hostile to US influence. 
But the subtext suggests there is now a possibility of establishing a working relationship between the US and Iran.
Mr Rouhani's election has been the catalyst for the thaw. 
Gestures are being made which were unimaginable a year ago when tensions were at their peak. 
Even Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, has called for “heroic flexibility” in talks.
Tehran's change of tone has not come about on its own. 
Sanctions aimed at forcing Iran to negotiate over its secretive nuclear programme are bearing fruit. 
Mr Rouhani is under pressure to win quick concessions to give some relief to Iran's crippled economy.
But these cannot be made until Tehran matches its charm offensive with concrete actions. 
Within one or two years, it will be too late to stop Iran from producing a bomb should it choose to do so.
If Iran is serious about delivering results, it has to end high- grade uranium enrichment and accept international controls on the nuclear programme. 
The US also has to respond. 
Mr Obama has already implicitly accepted Iran's right to low-grade enrichment. 
This may have to be more explicit. 
But Iran's economy will also have to be given some relief.
This week's tiptoe diplomacy has generated hopes for a sweeping deal covering not just nuclear issues but Iran's wider role in the region. 
Such hopes risk being disappointed. 
There will be obstacles to negotiation, not least in a mistrustful Congress and a suspicious Israel. 
Yet neither Washington nor Tehran should let these stand in the way of this opportunity for direct talks. 
The best chance of success may be if both sides keep their own expectations realistic. 
A limited and workable deal that contains Iran's nuclear capability could be the first step to a grand bargain at a later date.