This week, most Americans will for the first time tune in seriously to Mitt Romney's presidential campaign at his convention in Tampa.
Most conservatives will probably like what they see – a pro-family, strong defence and small-government ticket that offers a clear alternative to a second Barack Obama term.
Most liberals, however, will probably recoil from the Republican party's demonisation of a president who took office in exceptionally tough circumstances.
Weather permitting, the theatre should be compelling.
More important than the spectacle itself is whether Mr Romney and Paul Ryan can persuade voters they have a credible plan to revive the US economy.
Executive competence is the core theme of Mr Romney's biography.
Taking the tough economic decisions is the hallmark of the Romney-Ryan campaign.
On the evidence so far, the ticket deserves one and a half cheers.
They are right to say 2012 is an “economy, stupid” election.
But there is too much detail missing from the Romney-Ryan fiscal plan to give it a clean bill of health.
Far from it.
First, the plus points.
In selecting Mr Ryan as his running mate, Mr Romney has placed fiscal responsibility at the heart of his campaign.
Given that Mr Ryan is the only politician of note to have proposed a drastic cutback to Medicare, the largest and most popular item on the federal budget, his selection took courage.
Some believe it was also a reckless attempt to restore the edge to a flagging campaign.
Either way, the die is cast.
A Romney-Ryan administration would take the axe to public spending and taxes.
Mr Obama would not.
Mr Romney is offering voters a clear choice.
All the more reason, then, to put flesh on its bones.
Mr Romney has pledged to do four things to “restore fiscal sanity”.
First, he will cap federal spending at 20 per cent of gross domestic product.
Second, he will restore the US budget to surplus by the end of his second term (in 2020) and sponsor a balanced-budget amendment.
Third, he will spend at least four per cent of GDP annually on defence.
And finally, he will reduce everyone's tax rate by a fifth and abolish the inheritance tax.
It is a crisp and radical blueprint.
Alas for Mr Romney, it lacks credibility.
According to a consensus of studies, under his plan Mr Romney would be unable both to balance the budget and push through his intended tax cuts.
One of them has to give.
History tells us that, as a rule, Republican presidents care more about tax cuts than about deficits.
Under Mr Romney's plan most of the tax cuts would be funded by broadening the base.
However, he fails to spell out a single tax expenditure he would eliminate.
This is unsurprising given the popularity of, say, the health insurance tax credit, or the mortgage interest subsidy.
But it means the numbers just do not tally up.
Failing that, evaluations show that Mr Romney would need to cut non-defence discretionary spending by between a half and two-thirds to meet his spending cap.
It would end government as we know it.
It seems far likelier that he would let the deficit soar.
In addition to his fuzzy maths, Mr Romney is backtracking in his tough talk on Medicare.
By attacking Mr Obama for having imposed more than $700bn of Medicare cuts, Mr Romney is as guilty of “Mediscare” as his opponent.
Mr Obama's cuts, which were part of his healthcare law that Mr Romney has vowed to abolish, fall on providers, not retirees.
Mr Romney knows this full well.
His change of tack threatens to rob America of the straight debate it needs.
In keeping with tradition, Americans are being told they can take dessert without first eating their vegetables.
Mr Romney owes voters a more honest story than this.