The Chinese government is in a confident mood at the moment.
But by threatening to impose sanctions on US businesses that are involved in a $6.4bn arms deal with Taiwan, China is in danger of making a serious and counter- productive mistake.
Relations between the US and China are at a very delicate stage.
The good feelings generated by US president Barack Obama's visit to China last November have quickly dissipated.
In their place have come a series of disputes: about Google and cybersecurity, about climate change, about currency regimes, about Iran — and now about Taiwan.
Both sides are wearily familiar with each other's position on Taiwan.
But China's decision to threaten sanctions over the arms-sales package represents an escalation of Beijing's normal fierce verbal condemnation.
If China presses ahead with sanctions on big US exporters, such as Boeing, it risks unleashing a tit-for-tat round of trade sanctions that would damage China much more than the US.
Comments by senior US officials at the World Economic Forum in Davos and elsewhere confirm that protectionist sentiment is on the rise in the US.
With US unemployment in double-digits and a huge trade deficit with China, complaints about Chinese currency manipulation are getting a ready hearing in Washington.
If China appears to be actively initiating a trade war, the American reaction may well be: ""Bring it on.""
The Obama administration has been widely criticised at home for perceived weakness towards China.
The president turned down a meeting with the Dalai Lama, played down human rights disputes with China and submitted to television censorship of his town-hall meeting in Shanghai with barely a squawk of protest.
China's refusal to give an inch in return, on issues like climate change, Iran and the currency meant that Mr Obama was more or less bound to approve the arms sales to Taiwan, which fulfil a pledge made in 2001.
China's decision to escalate the dispute over Taiwan is all the more foolhardy given the long-term trends are moving in China's direction — with the Taiwanese government playing down talk of independence and embracing much closer relations with the mainland.
Under the circumstances Beijing should resist any moves towards a trade war that would be dangerous for the world and especially dangerous for China, the world's biggest exporter of manufactured goods.