Investment bankers and lawyers are always trying to stir up mergers and acquisitions activity, talking hopefully of their belief that dealmaking is about to blossom.
Perhaps there is some evidence that something is indeed stirring after the long winter of stagnation.
The past week has seen a flurry of large takeover deals, capped by Charter Communications' $61bn hostile bid for Time Warner Cable and Suntory's agreed $16bn acquisition of the US whiskey maker, Beam Inc.
It builds on a mini-trend during 2013.
As Mergermarket recorded, the value of global M&amp;A rose steadily in the first three quarters of 2013, after a depressed period from 2008 onwards as companies retrenched and deleveraged. The total value of deals grew by more than five per cent year on year over that period.
One might expect a recovery in the volume of deals at this point in the business cycle.
Corporate balance sheets remain piled high with cash and interest rates are at very low levels, making it cheap to raise bond finance.
Companies' miserliness with their money has been a product of their lack of confidence in consumer demand.
A recovery, even the patchy one we have seen, might be expected to change attitudes.
And, indeed, there are signs that investors are finally pushing companies to invest some of that money in growth.
Confidence is also evident in the willingness of acquirers to pay high prices for their targets.
Suntory faces a dip in its credit rating for paying 20 times operating cash flow for Beam.
Google, which has plenty of cash, is paying an estimated 21 times the revenues of Nest to acquire the smart home appliance company for $3.2bn.
These are not the actions of bosses fretting about a future slump.
There are however several reasons to be cautious about reading too much into the latest rush of deals.
First, this is not a normal global cycle.
Some European economies – notably France and Italy – are still struggling with low growth and the tapering of quantitative easing in the US has crimped growth in emerging markets.
There is no global surge.
Second, and related to this, headline bids and deals such as Verizon's $124bn purchase of the 45 per cent of its mobile arm owned by Vodafone – have been targeted at the US, where the outlook is clearest and most favourable.
This week's events fit the trend.
The churning of assets for its own sake is a frivolous activity that does little for investors.
True, much of the current wave of deals does seem to be driven by industrial considerations rather than a desire purely to conjure deal fees or create illusory value through the alchemy of leverage.
But it is not clear that confidence has yet extended to companies investing in their core businesses and expanding their activities.
That is ultimately a much more important application of animal spirits when it comes to driving a recovery.
Even in the US, business investment is running at only slightly above its 2008 level.
At 21.7 years the average age of corporate fixed assets is higher than it has been at any time since the late 1950s.
Also indicative of caution is the fact that many companies are still buying back shares.
The sudden burst of activity should nevertheless be seen as a sign of steadily increasing confidence.
To the extent it shuffles assets into the hands of those who can make the most productive use of them, it may help the economy.
However, it does not of itself mark the return of the sort of animal spirits that will spur a major expansion of activity.
For that to occur companies must invest in themselves as well as each other.
That said, M&amp;A bankers have a better story to tell clients in pitching deals than in the past few years.
There is more of a spring in their step.