It was George Entwistle's misfortune to take over as the BBC's director-general just as allegations were surfacing that the broadcaster had dropped an investigation into the predatory sexual behaviour of its one-time star presenter Jimmy Savile.
Only days into the job, he found himself in the teeth of the media equivalent of a force 8 gale.
While Mr Entwistle was able to survive that first storm – reasonably so, as he had not been director-general when the Savile decision was taken – his inability to handle the crisis left him acutely vulnerable.
When a second controversy erupted, involving the same news programme and inaccurate revelations of child abuse, his credibility was shot.
In such circumstances, he was right to resign.
Part of the director-general's formal role is to be the corporation's editor-in-chief. If that is to mean anything, it must involve taking responsibility when material is broadcast that falls far short of the standards expected of the BBC.
While the decision to drop the Savile investigation can be debated, nothing can be said in extenuation of the Newsnight item concerning child abuse at a children's home in north Wales.
The corporation relied on a single source whose unreliability was a matter of public record.
No attempt was made to put the allegations to the person against whom they were made.
The humblest local newspaper must abide by these basic journalistic standards. For the BBC to ignore them simply beggars belief.
Mr Entwistle's departure will no doubt spark calls for a wider clear-out at the BBC.
Hard questions can certainly be asked of some senior executives, notably Helen Boaden, who heads the broadcaster's news operation, and those editors and lawyers who rubber-stamped the child-abuse report.
But it is hard to see what is to be gained by decapitating the very top of the BBC, by pushing out Lord Patten, the chairman, for instance. This would only perpetuate the sense of crisis.
The priority must be to stabilise the corporation and find a new director-general.
Mr Entwistle has paid a heavy price for taking too literally the policy of delegating editorial control.
The corporation's size and complexity may demand some editorial delegation.
But this does not absolve the director-general of the need to be aware and, if necessary, to intervene.
The BBC failed Mr Entwistle. But his was also a failure of leadership.
His successor must learn from his misfortune.