Every now and then great parties suffer internecine convulsions.
It happened to the Democrats during the Reagan years. It also happened to Britain's Labour Party under Margaret Thatcher.
Today, the Republican Party is courting its own banishment with a presidential contest which is pettier and more personal than most.
It may be too late to undo the damage before the election in November.
Mitt Romney, who narrowly won his home state of Michigan on Tuesday night, already looks to be damaged goods.
The dwindling number of Republicans who see the glass as half full point to the bitter contest between Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton in 2008.
In spite of the divisions, Mr Obama united his party and went onto win a sweeping victory.
Then he asked Mrs Clinton to become his secretary of state.
Is it possible to imagine President Romney calling on Newt Gingrich or Rick Santorum? It would be a circular firing squad rather than a “team of rivals”.
One comparison is with Barry Goldwater, the Republican nominee whose “extremism in defence of liberty” delivered one of his party's worst defeats in 1964.
Mr Goldwater's nomination followed a bitter struggle with the moderate “Rockefeller wing”, which he said offered an “echo” rather than a “choice”.
Another parallel is Ronald Reagan's potent challenge to Gerald Ford in 1976, from which the sitting president never recovered.
Both Mr Goldwater's and Mr Reagan's candidacies paved the way for a generation of conservative ascendancy.
The present Republican contest, while reflecting the libertarian influence of the Tea Party, does not suggest a similar ideological transformation.
It bodes ill for the Republican nominee's prospects in November.
Nor are the bad omens confined to the presidential race.
This week, Olympia Snowe, one of the few Republican moderates left in the Senate, said she would retire, blaming the polarised “my way or the highway” climate in Washington.
Ms Snowe's state of Maine could now elect a Democrat.
Until recently it was assumed Republicans would take the Senate and hold the House in November.
Both bets now look wobbly.
US politics is in flux.
But the Republican Party's malaise is self-inflicted.
It is worth noting that without Ms Snowe's support in 2009 Mr Obama would have failed to pass his $787bn stimulus, which would have been a disaster for America.
If people like Ms Snowe are bolting, perhaps this Republican ship deserves to be scuttled.