Whoever was behind the Boston bombs chose their timing and venue carefully.
It is not clear whether they were carried out by a terrorist group or a murderous loner, by foreigners or Americans.
But to set off two devices at a crowded event on Patriot's Day – the start of Boston's spring – suggests it was primed for maximum publicly.
Given the density of the crowd watching the city's annual marathon, it is extraordinary that the bombs did not claim a higher toll than the three lives so tragically cut short.
The goal now for the US authorities must be to remain calm, find the culprits and keep politics out of it.
Barack Obama's statements on Monday and yesterday set the right tone.
The US president vowed to leave no stone unturned in pursuit of the killer or killers. And he defined it as an act of terrorism.
Beyond that, however, Mr Obama did not speculate.
His circumspection was warranted.
Residents of Washington well remember the “beltway sniper” who killed 10 people in the wake of the 9/11 attacks in 2001. Two men were arrested for the murders.
Many were sucked into speculation over the 1995 Oklahoma bombing that took 168 lives.
It was the work of one deranged individual, Timothy McVeigh.
In contrast, the Twin Towers attacks were plotted by dozens of al-Qaeda operatives.
Until we know who did this, speculation is irresponsible.
Nor is this a time for politics.
Yesterday, Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, said the Boston bombs were evidence that “the complacency that prevailed before September 11 has returned”.
There is not a shred of evidence for this claim.
Security at US airports, public buildings and private facilities remains as tight as ever.
The frequency of drone strikes in Pakistan and elsewhere continues unabated.
And US local police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have a good record of foiling domestic plots, such as the Times Square car bomb in 2010.
In the coming days there will be intense debate about whether and how to tighten US domestic security following this outrage.
There will doubtless be important lessons to be learnt.
Beyond the details, however, it is worth remembering that the aim of terrorism is always to provoke overreaction.
The US public's response to Monday's bombs in Boston has so far been admirably calm.
This is the time to let the FBI and police do their work of tracking down the culprits.