Much has been made of James Murdoch's resignation as chairman of News International, the scandal-stricken UK newspaper publishing operation of the global media giant.
On a day-to-day level, his departure signifies little.
While he may only just have got round to handing back his security pass, Mr Murdoch has played little part in running the subsidiary since Tom Mockridge was parachuted in as chief executive last year.
The act of resignation, moreover, cannot absolve him of responsibility for what happened on his watch.
In recent weeks, more evidence has tumbled out, both at the Leveson inquiry and in the courts, of alleged misconduct at News International.
A senior police officer investigating corruption involving public officials has even talked about a “culture of illegal payments” at its biggest-selling tabloid, The Sun.
Mr Murdoch has yet to give a full account of what he knew and when he knew it.
On this hangs not only the question of responsibility for wrongdoing at the British newspapers, but also whether he, as an individual (or News Corporation, as the main shareholder) can be considered by the UK authorities as “fit and proper” to control BSkyB, the satellite broadcaster of which he remains chairman.
Given Sky's importance in the media landscape, this must be settled swiftly.
Mr Murdoch's resignation is charged with corporate symbolism, leaving the subsidiary for the first time without a Murdoch family member on its board.
The UK newspaper unit has long been an orphan within News Corp: its financial frailties tolerated because of its political clout – and the opportunities this afforded to secure commercial opportunities.
The extent of News International's hold on public life is now being laid bare.
Lord Falconer, a minister in Tony Blair's government, admitted that both main political parties had been too willing to “curry favour” with Rupert Murdoch.
According to a former head of the Metropolitan Police, Lord Blair, the police followed the politicians' lead in keeping in with the News International stable.
That this influence may now be on the wane is a good thing.
More worrying, however, are the implications for newspapers.
The UK has belatedly woken up to the importance of media diversity.
It is richly ironic that were the scandal to lead News Corp to sell its UK papers, and some of them were to prove inviable in new ownership, such plurality could be another casualty of this affair.