The appearance of Rupert and James Murdoch before the House of Commons media select committee was more than a piece of theatre.
Over three hours, including an enforced break after a custard pie attack, MPs and the watching world were treated to a rare insight into the management of the Murdoch empire.
The hearing exposed the extent to which Rupert Murdoch and his heir apparent were unable or unwilling to account for criminal behaviour at News Corp's British newspaper subsidiary, specifically the phone-hacking scandal which has convulsed the nation.
While expressing contrition, Rupert Murdoch exonerated all the senior executives who ran the UK business during the relevant period, including Rebekah Brooks, her predecessor, Les Hinton, and James Murdoch himself.
It remains unclear, therefore, to whom Rupert Murdoch was referring when he said the company had been badly betrayed in connection with the hacking.
This is a question that will at some point need to be answered, either in the judge-led inquiry ordered by the prime minister or the renewed police investigation.
Select committee hearings have in the past sometimes been ineffective because of the inability of MPs to focus on a coherent line of inquiry.
This one was a great improvement, with members having the time and space to develop forensic lines of questioning.
Much of the session was rightly devoted to the question of corporate governance.
Mr Murdoch painted a picture of media mogul content to hand authority to those running the outer reaches of his empire.
But this case study in devolution apparently ended up with no one taking responsibility. This despite long-running payments to convicted felons and confidential settlements with potential witnesses to the tune of several million pounds.
Rupert Murdoch pointed out that the News of the World, the best-selling and profitable Sunday tabloid, now closed after 168 years, is but a small fragment of his empire.
Yet he now recognises that his newspaper fundamentally breached the trust of its readers.
James Murdoch presented himself as the prisoner of decisions taken prior to his arrival at the UK business concern- ing the hacking scandal – merely signing off cheques and court settlements at the behest of lawyers.
This will not do.
The company has not explained how a culture of lawlessness was allowed to take hold.
The Murdochs still have questions to answer.