French feminists were understandably indignant at the fuss made over the return to Paris this week of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former head of the International Monetary Fund.
Gisèle Halimi, the veteran lawyer and crusader for women's rights, described the flashing cameras and silver screen smiles at Charles de Gaulle airport as “indecent”, given that the sexual assault charges against Mr Strauss-Kahn have been dropped rather than proved false.
More indecent, however, is a suggestion emerging from certain influential quarters that Mr Strauss-Kahn, once the Socialist party's best hope for winning next year's presidential election, still has a role to play in public life.
Through his formidable communications machine, Mr Strauss-Kahn has let it be known that he wants to be “useful” – if not in France, then perhaps on the wider European stage, where he could help shape the response to the debt crisis.
Yet even if he were not involved in three other legal actions linked to alleged sexual assaults in the US and France, revelations about his libertine private life and attitude to women make any public role unthinkable.
Mr Strauss-Kahn is a talented politician and one of the few credible economic thinkers on the French left.
As finance minister from 1997 to 1999, he paved the way for France's adoption of the euro by cutting the budget deficit and reducing debt.
He restored the IMF to relevance by building consensus on reform and helping Europe to overcome its divisions in the first Greek crisis of 2010.
But enough doubts remain over what exactly happened in his New York hotel suite last May to overshadow his talents.
French voters seem to believe that whether or not he is innocent, as he insists, the revelations from the affair make him unsuitable for the lofty role of president or even for a cabinet post.
If French voters rule him out, why should the European Union treat him more favourably?
In coming days Mr Strauss-Kahn will try to repair the damage with his own version of events.
But an interview on the eight o'clock news will not carry the same weight as sworn testimony in a courtroom.
The best option for Mr Strauss-Kahn now is to give his side of the story and then to retire into the background.
If he really wants to be useful to his party, France or Europe, then it should be in private.
Influencing policy from behind the scenes would not only be more effective. It would also be less humiliating for Mr Strauss-Kahn himself.