Japan's solid economic growth in the first quarter of 2013 provided a quick pay-off from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's aggressive cranking of the fiscal and monetary policy levers at his disposal.
It is also the sort of instant gratification that could play well for Mr Abe in elections this July.
Whether he has ended Japan's poor growth spell for good, however, is doubtful.
The growth spurt – at an annualised rate of 3.5 per cent – is welcome for its own sake and for what it promises for the near future.
Private consumption accounted for more than half of the new demand – net exports and public spending drove the rest.
This suggests “Abenomics” is having an effect.
Mr Abe's fiscal loosening and campaign for more aggressive monetary action bore fruit even before Haruhiko Kuroda, the new BoJ governor, unveiled the policy.
That means another good quarter may follow as the scale of Mr Kuroda's commitment makes itself felt alongside the plummeting yen.
Mr Kuroda intends to double the money supply in two years and insists inflation will go up to 2 per cent per year.
By itself, however, the double-barrelled bazooka of fiscal and monetary expansion cannot solve Japan's problems.
The depreciation can steal some demand from other countries but the rest of the world will surely not allow this diversion to be taken to an excess.
There is grumbling aplenty in the G7 and among Asian neighbours.
A monetary experiment as bold as Mr Kuroda's also runs the risk of getting out of control, with inflation overshooting and confidence collapsing, taking consumption and investment with it.
The huge public debt mountain is also inherently destabilising.
Even if the risks are contained, Mr Abe's policy cocktail is insufficient because Japan's growth challenge is structural at root, resulting from demographic change and a misallocation of investment.
The ageing and shrinking of Japan's population is a huge brake on growth.
So is the country's wealth: Japanese manufacturers' outsourcing to lower-cost east Asian countries will and should go on despite a more favourable exchange rate.
The task is to adapt to these facts.
Few productive outlets exist within Japan for corporate investment – excessive corporate savings are better invested abroad or redirected into new knowledge-intensive services.
Labour-market policies must be tilted in the favour of women and the young.
Short-term stimulus can sweeten these necessary structural adaptations. It cannot substitute for them.