On Monday the UK Financial Services Authority is to be wound down and its powers handed over to successor bodies.
It has made sure not to leave the stage quietly.
This week, the Bank of England's Financial Policy Committee, which is taking on responsibility for overall financial stability, announced that FSA analysis implied UK banks needed to find £25bn of additional capital by the end of 2013.
Regulators also plan to let new banks start up with less capital than established ones.
The finding of a capital shortfall had been well-flagged and was smaller than many had expected.
Still, it is an important announcement.
That initially healthy numbers conceal a scarcity of loss-absorbing capital goes a long way to explaining banks' unwillingness to lend and thus the disappointing potency of monetary activism, government's preferred tool for propping up demand in the economy.
Although the Bank of England's interest rate is at a record low, the spread above it of borrowing costs for households and businesses has remained high by pre-crisis standards.
Banks in rude health would rush to exploit such a profit margin by expanding lending.
In fact, lending is shrinking – in spite of a flagship “funding for lending” programme.
Banks say they are making credit more available to small businesses but the cost of that credit has not fallen.
Also, many companies unable to service more than interest costs on outstanding loans are being kept alive by bank forbearance.
All this points to a banking system too worried about future losses on its legacy exposures to expand lending to new borrowers – even good ones.
It is therefore welcome that the regulator arm has looked seriously at the realism of reported capital ratios.
The FPC is, first, applying the lesson of self-inflicted losses from banks' misconduct.
Fines and compensation already paid for scandals such as Libor manipulation and payment protection insurance mis-selling make it rational to provision for more punishment to come.
Second, it is taking banks' risk calculations with a pinch of salt.
Not before time: it is deeply problematic that Basel capital rules permit the use of banks' own models to risk-weight assets, in effect making profit considerations relevant to what risk model banks choose to use.
Finally, regulators estimated losses on some of the banks' portfolios in UK real estate and the eurozone periphery.
All this is useful.
The number coming out at the end, however, is too small to make much difference – £25bn amounts to less than 1 per cent of the system's total assets.
The hurdle at 7 per cent of risk-weighted assets – which means losing 3 per cent of total assets could wipe out capital – remains too easy to jump.
And it is a bad omen for transparency that regulators chose not to release a detailed bank-by-bank capital calculation.
Something is still better than nothing.
The FPC rightly demands swift recapitalisation.
The question is where the capital is to be found?
Rights issues look unlikely, public money has been ruled out.
Dividend and bonus payments can be stopped, but will take time to add up.
So regulators must deliver on the promise to stop banks from meeting the ratio by shrinking the loan book.
Asset sales that did not change aggregate values would be much better – and would help to diversify the banking system.
That also makes it right to give new banks a pass on the toughest rules.
If existing banks are too burdened with past problems to lend, room must be made for new banks with fresh balance sheets.
Start-up difficulties in banking, and the fact that new banks by definition have no legacy problems, justify lighter treatment of entrants – until they have established a foothold.
There is no need to hold them only to the legal minimum of capital, however.
The same advantage could be conferred by raising incumbents' capital requirement even further.