Europe's recent lamentable growth numbers bring home the cost of poor policy.
But after years of confusion, distraction and errors, eurozone leaders are focusing on the right task, as finance ministers did in their meeting last week: to build a banking union for the euro.
Many of Europe's banks have been left undercapitalised, their lending constrained by frozen funding markets and the debt overhangs on their balance sheets.
By hanging the debts of banks around the necks of governments, the original policy exacerbated panic in sovereign debt markets.
Thus a failure to fix the banks beat a path for the other big policy mistake.
Instead of the fiscal co-ordination needed in monetary union, where financially solid states expand while stretched ones tighten, the eurozone was subjected to the strictures of austerity for all.
Since June, however, the eurozone has been moving towards banking union, albeit fitfully.
At times it has gone into reverse. It has agreed on a single supervisory authority, though it remains to be seen how it will work (especially a compromise to keep small banks out of the net in normal times).
The debate is now about a single resolution mechanism and the nature of rules to make investors bear the cost of bank failures.
An agreement is promised by June.
That may well slip. What matters is that the disagreement is not over whether to have an SRM and bail-in, but over its legal foundations and the hierarchy of loss-taking for investors.
This may not sound much, but it is tremendous political progress from where the eurozone was only a year ago.
The power to close banks and distribute losses among investors needs an unassailable legal basis.
This should not be an insuperable obstacle: Berlin has clarified it seeks only technical treaty amendments.
A relatively quick legal solution should be achievable.
On bail-in, countries disagree whether depositors' claims should be honoured ahead of senior bonds (as in the US) or on an equal basis.
The experience of Cyprus, which shows how essential it is to protect small depositors credibly, implies super-seniority for insured deposits.
Deposits above €100,000 also play a vital economic function – as working capital for the small business; one-off transactions such as housebuying; or savings for the ultra-risk-averse pensioner.
They should rank above bonds – investment products that investors can and should price according to risk.
It took a long time, but the eurozone has begun to try to repair itself.
It should keep up the work.