Sir Martin Sorrell may be in the persuasion business, but the boss of WPPhas signally failed to persuade his own shareholders to pay him £6.8m for his efforts last year.
At yesterday's annual meeting, they rejected the advertising group's remuneration report, and with it his hefty pay package.
This is embarrassing for Sir Martin, who has mounted a vocal public defence of his remuneration.
The burden of his argument – that his pay was modest compared with that handed out by WPP's global rivals – was roundly rejected.
Investors were right to do so.
The outcome reflects a welcome new focus on absolute, rather than relative, pay levels.
In the past, investors have been too willing to go along with the idea of executive remuneration as some sort of race in which you must always keep up with the leaders.
This has contributed to spiralling boardroom pay inflation, which risks undermining the reputation of capitalism and feeding the politics of envy.
At a time when many incomes are falling in real terms, pay rises of 60 per cent – the increase Sir Martin was claiming – can only be justified on the basis of outstanding performance.
They cannot be handed out as catch-ups for past forbearance or to ease the pain of being less well paid than rivals in a global marketplace.
WPP's performance, while respectable, was not truly exceptional.
Meanwhile the idea that Sir Martin, with a 2 per cent stake, would defect to a rival was not credible.
Sir Martin's defeat opens a new front in the so-called “shareholder spring”.
To date, investors have tended to take action in egregious cases where pay was wildly out of line with performance such as at Trinity Mirror, or there were collateral concerns about strategy, as was the case at Aviva.
The WPP vote shows investors are starting to tackle what one might call the problem of average excessive pay.
While this was a non-binding poll, WPP should not brush it aside.
The company should seek to address investors' concerns by removing whatever elements of the package they find objectionable.
Sir Martin's pay might fall as a result, but he still holds a substantial stake in WPP.
There would be no conflict with investors were he to devote his considerable talents to increasing its returns.
Of course, it would be better if boards did not approve outsize pay deals in the first place.
The best deterrent would be to have binding annual votes on pay.
The government has suggested it might water down plans to have such polls.
It should think again.