It is no secret that the US and Britain collaborate closely on intelligence matters.
Nor does any mystery surround the fact that their partnership is intense in the field of signals monitoring.
Ever since the heroic efforts of the codebreakers at Bletchley Park, Britain has an acknowledged expertise in this field.
Treaties in force since the end of the second world war provide for large-scale data-sharing between Britain's GCHQ and America's National Security Administration – and also the intelligence agencies of Australia, Canada and New Zealand.
Fresh revelations from the cache of classified documents leaked by the US defector Edward Snowden contain revelations about this key intelligence relationship.
The first is that the US funds certain projects undertaken by GCHQ.
It paid a little more than £30m a year between 2010 and 2012, mostly relating to Nato operations in Afghanistan and a project concerning internet surveillance.
This compares to a total annual UK secret intelligence budget for MI5, MI6 and GCHQ, of some £2.1bn.
The second is that the UK agency feels an obligation to assist the Americans.
One GCHQ strategy document observes that the agency “must pull its weight and be seen to pull its weight” when it came to dealings with the NSA.
The first reaction to all this is simply to shrug.
Given the closeness of the partnership, it is hardly surprising that the NSA might fund projects, especially in areas where it had a strong interest in the outcome.
As to the willingness of British security officials to take American views into account, or to answer requests put to them: ditto.
There are, of course, legitimate concerns about intelligence-sharing.
Most countries apply tighter rules to the surveillance of their citizens than they do in the case of foreign nationals.
Data-swapping should not allow an intelligence agency to achieve through a foreign agency what it could not achieve at home without leaping through high legal hoops.
The leaked documents offer no proof of this however.
True, one GCHQ document claims the agency made a “unique contribution” to the NSA's investigation into a 2010 bomb attack in New York.
But there is no suggestion that this enabled the US agency to sidestep any laws.
In any case co-operating in the fight against terrorism is precisely what the intelligence agencies should be doing.
There are questions to ask about the activities of intelligence agencies in the internet age.
Given the capacity to log and analyse vast amounts of data, vigilance is needed to ensure that this is not abused.
Technology must not be used to circumvent legal process.
Mr Snowden's latest documents contain juicy gossip. They contain little however that should cause anyone to lose much sleep.