FT社论：埃及需要向前看 Leader_Now Egypt must look to the future
As the sun beat down on the expectant throng in Tahrir Square yesterday, while the head of the electoral commission waffled his way towards the result of Egypt's first free presidential election, it seemed for a moment that the generals fumbling the choreography of Egypt's tumultuous transition might not have grasped the extent to which they have brought their country to the boil.
In the event, Mohammed Morsi of the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood was declared the victor over Ahmed Shafiq, a former air force commander who was the last prime minister of deposed president Hosni Mubarak.
Rather than erupt in riot the Tahrir crowds let off festive fireworks and bowed in prayer.
But the question of who rules Egypt is far from resolved.
It is tactically astute of the military council that has steered Egypt since Mr Mubarak's downfall to let the result stand.
It would have been an act of pharaonic folly to court civil strife by trampling on the majority of voters.
The generals knew Mr Morsi had won by a small but decisive margin.
Egypt now faces wrenching changes.
The Islamist-dominated parliament elected last December demonstrated no sense of urgency, much less grasp of the national emergency facing the country.
But nor did the military puppeteers operating behind the scenes to protect their own privileges.
The challenge facing President Morsi is to get Egypt back on its feet: to restore security after 16 months of turmoil; to reboot a frozen economy and get investment flowing; and to win the confidence of that half of Egypt's citizens who profoundly mistrust the intentions of the secretive Brotherhood.
Yet it is moot what real powers he will have.
The generals have manoeuvred to dissolve parliament and appropriate legislative powers, award themselves the right to shape the new constitution, as well as reintroduce the essential features of martial law.
The problem remains that there are two rival power centres in Egypt, occasionally colluding with, but more often conspiring against, each other.
That cannot continue.
The Brothers and the generals need to look to the future of the country, guaranteeing citizenship for all in a plural environment of equal rights and opportunity.
This is a historic moment in the new Arab awakening, and a test of the Islamic revivalism that has become its centre of political gravity.
It will also test whether the most populous and pivotal Arab country can reoccupy its place as the cultural pole of the region.