Central bankers are more cautious than the rest of us, but they are not immovable objects when confronted by irresistible force.
Deterioriating economic prospects have spurred the Bank of England and the European Central Bank into action.
Both can still do more.
Members of the Bank of England's monetary policy committee had been dropping hints that a new round of quantitative easing – buying gilts with Bank money – was in the offing.
As it was, they jumped the gun on markets, which expected the relaunch of QE in November.
The £75bn magnitude of the purchase commitment was also heftier than many had dared to hope for.
Any enthusiasm should be kept in check.
Doing something is a whole lot better than doing nothing, but £75bn will boost UK output by three-quarters of a per cent at most, on the Bank's estimates. It could be much less: lower long-term interest rates benefit those with ample access to cheap credit already more than those whose spending is credit-constrained.
Adam Posen, the MPC's most activist member, sees this as a reason to do even more QE.
But his stronger case is for going beyond gilt-buying – most obviously to target credit to the small and medium enterprise sector where conditions are toughest.
A promise by George Osborne, chancellor of the exchequer, to unblock credit to SMEs suggests that the Treasury is ready to work with the Bank, which should reciprocate and prepare to take SME loans on its balance sheet.
The ECB missed an opportunity to cut its too-high interest rates.
It would have been the right thing to do: restarting growth is a sine qua non for ending the eurozone's crisis.
A lower deposit rate, more­over, could prompt more banks to lend to each other.
Politically, outgoing president Jean-Claude Trichet could more easily have presided over a cut than will Mario Draghi, his Italian successor.
The actions that the ECB did take are not negligible, however.
Reopening one-year liquidity facilities, promising to keep unlimited cash provision in place until July and buying more covered bonds will all help banks under strain.
In response to questions, Mr Trichet voiced strong support for the idea of leveraging the eurozone's sovereign rescue fund – just not with ECB liquidity.
If his remarks help this proposal get off the ground, it will be no small contribution to eurozone financial stability.
The two central banks chose more of what each was already doing.
That is better than nothing.
Even more would be better still.