As they battle with the consequences of the financial crisis, EU governments are always on the lookout for ways to attract inward investment.
One popular idea is to offer residency rights and passports to rich entrepreneurs from states such as China and Russia, hoping they will invest in their newfound country.
Lots of EU governments do this these days.
Greece offers a residence permit to foreigners who buy property valued at €250,000.
A non-EU national who buys a €500,000 house in Portugal can gain Portuguese citizenship after six years.
Britain has its own programme, albeit with strict conditions.
A foreigner who invests £1m in a UK company today can apply for permanent residence five years from now.
But that person must be resident in the UK for six months in each of those years.
One EU state – Malta – is now undercutting the passport market like no other.
It has declared that it will sell a Maltese passport to anyone who pays €650,000.
Applicants will be tested to ensure, among other things, that they are not terrorists or money launderers.
But if that test is passed, the passport is handed over immediately. It appears that no prior residency or connection to the island is needed.
Malta's action should prompt disquiet across the EU.
A Chinese or Russian national who gains a Maltese passport automatically acquires residency rights across the 28-nation bloc.
The idea that this person need have no prior residence in, or connection, to Malta is unacceptable and is bound to raise security concerns.
Nor is Malta's example isolated.
Hungary has said it will offer a passport to anyone with a Hungarian citizen as an ancestor.
The government is therefore giving passports to tens of thousands of citizens in Ukraine, Serbia and Turkey – all non-EU states – in what may be a crude move to boost its chances in next year's elections.
EU member states should act on this.
Brussels should not receive any legal power to determine what constitutes citizenship in each state.
But the EU's 28 governments should agree common standards for the allocation of passports to non-EU nationals – setting out, in particular, a minimum length of prior residency that is required.
If no action is taken, EU governments will compete in a race to the bottom to see which state offers passports to rich foreign investors on the easiest terms.
This can only end up strengthening the hand of those who believe that freedom of movement across the EU should be abandoned altogether.