The markets' response to the debt ceiling showdown in Washington has so far been muted.
Bond traders seem convinced that a deal will be done before August 2 to raise the US government's borrowing limit and end the risk of an imminent default.
With the deadline now just days away, and talks still deadlocked, that view may change at any moment.
The calm in markets could vanish.
In the meantime, the fact that US bond yields have not spiked – yet – does not mean the debt ceiling impasse is harmless.
The risk of financial dislocation is affecting decisions and doing real damage.
As the Financial Times reported on Wednesday, money market funds have begun to hoard cash in case they have to meet a surge of redemptions.
Restrictions on these funds' short-term lending distort the cost of borrowing and have a knock-on effect for banks, among others, which rely on short-term transactions in the repo market.
Banks are conserving liquidity on their own behalf, too, making credit for those who need it harder to get.
US corporations, in many cases with strong profits and ample cash balances, are postponing investments because of uncertainty.
Consumer confidence in the US remains very low (despite a modest surprising uptick in July).
News broadcasts and websites have started featuring clocks counting down the minutes to “financial Armageddon”: it is hard to believe that this will lift consumers' spirits.
Investment planning in the public sector, of course, is at a standstill, not just because of uncertainty over the debt ceiling, but also because the longer-term budgetary outlook is a blank space.
Agencies have no clue when they will be hit with cuts, or whether those cuts, if they come, will be moderate or savage.
So Washington's endless squabbling over fiscal policy, and in recent days the mounting risk of a self-imposed calamity, have already taken their toll.
Some of this damage will not be undone even if the budget dispute is resolved in all respects by August 2, which no one expects.
Investors have seen Washington walk to the brink of a needless financial disaster and talk seriously about whether to jump.
This is something they are unlikely to forget.
There is still time to avoid the worst, and investors are probably right that some kind of agreement will soon be reached.
They better had be.
Whatever happens, a new benchmark for fiscal irresponsibility has already been set which will not go away anytime soon.