Central banking has much in common with chess and fencing.
What others think you will do – and to which they pre-emptively react – may matter more than what you yourself actually do in the pursuit of victory.
Winning strategies involve feints, signals and the art of calmly manoeuvring opponents to where you want them.
Some times the ability to force another's hand is far more effective than making your own move.
Such thoughts may have been on the minds of the world's two most important central banks' governing committees this week.
Strictly speaking, the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank did nothing.
But their respective leaders, Ben Bernanke and Mario Draghi, showed how doing nothing is far from being inactive.
Messrs Bernanke and Mr Draghi of course face different predicaments.
The US economy, while hardly in top shape, is at least plodding ahead, while the eurozone is wobbling on the edge of a cliff.
Both men disappointed investors hoping for more aggressive monetary action.
Rather than detonating additional monetary powder, the ECB used its monthly press conference to show that it actually has some powder left, while the Fed's statement was designed to signal that its powder is still dry.
The Fed, while noting that US economic growth is slowing down, did not take this as a cue to change its monetary stance or its guidance on how long it will keep interest rates at rock-bottom levels.
But it went out of its way to ready investors for more: the Fed “will provide additional accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery”.
The content and the tone of Mr Draghi's statement was more forceful than what came out of the Fed.
However he, too, resorted to words not actions.
The ECB “may undertake” purchases of government bonds if conditions are right.
Not only that, it “may consider undertaking further non-standard monetary policy measures” if bond-buying is not enough.
The US economic picture only barely justifies the Fed's choice to stay put.
Friday's jobs data – better than expected but worse than needed to bring unemployment down – illustrates how difficult it is to see where the US economy is headed.
The jedi-like immobility of the Fed and certainly of the ECB has more to do with politics than economics.
Both face economies whose worse enemies are elected leaders unable to stop a financial collapse (in the eurozone) or dead set on a fiscal policy course bound to kill the recovery (in the US).
All talk and no action, seems to have been investors' take on both central banks.
But Messrs Draghi and Bernanke know they can only succeed if other policy makers do their part.
To achieve that, words may speak louder than actions.