Recoveries are not supposed to be interrupted by a quarter of negative growth.
Yet the US economy, which shrank by 0.1 per cent in the last three months of 2012, is still struggling to achieve escape velocity.
Most of the shrinkage can be attributed to one-off factors, such as bad weather, the decline in business inventories and a sharp drop-off in spending on defence.
As such, many forecasters expect US growth to resume at something close to the trend rate of 2.5 per cent in the first three months.
But there is little room for complacency.
Now is not the time for tightening – either of the monetary or the fiscal kind.
The most significant threat to US growth in 2013 comes from the impending fiscal sequester, which is due to fall on March 1.
So far, the markets have taken a relaxed view of the fiscal shenanigans.
But the risk that Congress will fail to strike a sensible bargain and thereby automatically trigger deep spending cuts is real.
Indeed, the Republican decision last week to push back the battle over the sovereign debt ceiling until May has raised their incentive to play hardball on the sequester.
If no deal is struck, the US will be hit by $110bn in spending cuts on March 1.
This would be roughly equivalent to the expiry of the payroll tax holiday last month, whose impact will only be felt in this quarter.
Another such hit would probably be enough to stop US growth in its tracks.
Now, as always, the goal must be for Congress to set out a sensible fiscal road map that achieves medium-term balance without jeopardising short-term growth prospects.
Its chief contours are not hard to discern – reductions in Medicare and Social Security spending that are phased in over time.
As ever, the politics is the problem.
By contrast, the Federal Reserve offers a measure of certainty that continues to elude the politicians.
On Wednesday the FOMC indicated it would maintain its $85bn in monthly quantitative easing for several months yet.
This is surely right.
The risks to US growth continue to be on the downside.
Last quarter's downturn came in spite of the growth in consumer spending, which has been underpinned by a recovering housing market – the two key interest-sensitive parts of the economy.
Since exports are likely to remain flat, these will continue to be the chief sources of growth.
The Federal Reserve is right to ignore the inflation bears.
There is a long way to go before unemployment falls to the Fed's 6.5 per cent trigger that would end zero-bound interest rates.
All things being equal, 2013 should be the year the US economy finally hits its stride.
But the outlook remains needlessly fragile.
Without the 2.2 per cent rise in annualised consumption in the last quarter, US growth would have plunged deeply into negative territory.
Some of that consumption growth will be reversed this quarter because of the payroll tax expiry.
At a bare minimum, Congress must avoid taking steps that would make it worse.