In the US and the European Union, the fight over new disclosure rules for oil, gas and mining companies is still being fought, but transparency campaigners are already opening a new front.
Their new proposal – to expand transparency to include the sale and trading of commodities – deserves support.
The Dodd-Frank bill requires US-listed companies to publish details of payments to countries where they extract resources.
The European Commission has presented similar proposals.
In the US, specific rules have yet to be formulated;
in the EU, member states and the Parliament need to agree to a version of the Commission's proposal.
Some are exploiting the process to push for the rules to be watered down – helped, in Europe, by governments such as Germany.
To still-contested “publish what you pay” non-governmental organisations now want to add “publish what you sell/buy” for national oil companies and commodity trading houses to unveil missing barrels of oil or marketing ploys designed to facilitate corruption.
Some will call this overreach.
In fact, it addresses the worst industry fears.
The moral case for transparency is that it is necessary – if not sufficient – to stop the theft and waste that devastates poor, resource-rich countries.
Shining a light makes it possible to find and address wrongdoing or bad policies.
This applies as much to transactions between companies that buy and sell commodities as to payments by those that extract them.
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, on which new US and EU laws are based, and other efforts have so far targeted the activity of taking fuel and minerals out of the ground.
Extractive companies have a point when they say that this tilts the playing field in favour of less scrupulous non-western and state oil companies.
Widening the light cone of transparency would help.
The more is seen, the more of the unseen also becomes clear.
If commodity trading houses – many based in Switzerland, beyond the US or EU rules – had to publish their payments to the national oil companies that often handle sales of state-owned oil, producing companies that comply with transparency would be less at a disadvantage.
The trading business is ripe for transparency in its own right.
At the moment cartelisation may not be an acute problem, but the focus is clearly on consolidation.
Importers' vulnerability will be greater the more concentrated the commodity traders are.
The first safeguard against market abuse is to know what goes on in the market.