Norwegian attacks reveal Europe's homegrown threats
For all the shock of seeing the centre of Oslo devastated, it pales next to the massacre of nearly 100 teenagers at Utoya, where Norway's Labour youth movement assembles every year for a week sprinkled with politics, but mostly devoted to the summer fun that is the birthright of youth.
None described it better than Jens Stoltenberg, the prime minister, who himself spent many a summer at the camp and was due to address it on Saturday: “Utoya is the paradise of my youth which has been transformed into hell.”
Words are of meagre service in the face of such an atrocity, made worse by its targeting of children and the diabolically methodical manner in which it was perpetrated.
But beyond offering sympathy and comfort, it is worth attempting to ensure that the victims did not die entirely in vain by pulling lessons for the future from the horror of the present.
The Norwegian authorities have been scrupulously correct in not speculating about the killer's identity and motives before gathering evidence.
But in Norway and globally, commentators and media – this newspaper included – were quick to look to Islamist terrorists as the most plausible culprits.
That the terrorist seems to have been a Norwegian anti-Islamist instead should give us all pause.
It is a brutal reminder that the twisted logic of extremism is universal, and as normal – and abnormal – a product of secularist zealotry as it is of the religious kind.
At the very least, it may spare Norway the enmity against Muslim citizens and immigrants that would no doubt have followed a jihadist attack.
The country's at times virulent debate over immigration and integration of minorities will hopefully be refined by an understanding that pure Norwegian roots are no guarantee against the growth of a perverted sense of righteousness.
Norwegians take pride in a society whose security and surveillance measures are less intrusive than elsewhere.
Mr Stoltenberg vows that the country will not give up its openness and the people's proximity to power.
He should be steadfast in this promise.
But there is reason to fear that he – or competing politicians – will falter under hard questions about security policies, including gun control.
The grief will not abate soon, but this is not the only difficulty in the time ahead.
Norway, focused on threats originating abroad, underestimated the danger brewing at home.
So, surely, are other European nations.
With Norway, they all have to face their demons now.