The UK's equity market has become a relative backwater, with a dearth of new issues and the number of listed companies declining steeply.
According to John Kay, the economist and Financial Times columnist who has just completed a review of equity investment on behalf of the government, the problem goes beyond a cyclical decline in investors' appetite for shares.
A lack of trust in financial intermediation is eroding both supply and demand for public equity, he argues.
Unchecked, this could weaken the effectiveness of UK equity markets as a mechanism for mobilising the nation's savings.
The proposition that the financial sector has a problem with trust is hard to argue with in the wake of the Libor scandal.
It is also hard to dispute much of Prof Kay's analysis.
The general trend over the past 30 years towards the creation of financial conglomerates – carrying on trading and giving investment advice – has been a mixed blessing for investors, giving rise to conflicts of interest that regulators have failed to manage.
Competition between fund managers, meanwhile, has come to revolve around short-term price movements, leading too often to the sort of herding, hyperactive trading and poor capital allocation that marked the dotcom bubble.
Corporate executives have become too focused on influencing share prices – through such expedients as buybacks and merger and acquisition strategies, which have themselves a mixed record of success.
Prof Kay is right to suggest that the financial sector needs to reconnect with the beneficiaries it serves, and to pinpoint fund management as the key point in the intermediary chain where such a reconnection must be effected.
A more patient and engaged view of share ownership would certainly help.
Zero-sum competition among fund managers does little to increase savers' wealth.
Inevitably, given the scale of the task, Prof Kay does not have a single eye-catching prescription to latch on to.
But the idea of asserting that intermediaries have a fiduciary responsibility to the beneficiaries of investment funds is a good one.
More transparency over costs would also be welcome.
Financial intermediation is here to stay.
There is no returning to an older market model, where individual ownership was more common.
Nor would that be desirable. But if an intermediated system is to flourish, it needs to work better for companies and investors alike.
And that is a message that resounds beyond equity markets.