As politicians travel to the United Nations' headquarters for the annual General Assembly, they should take time to study New York's efforts to tackle the growing – and increasingly global – burden of lifestyle diseases.
Michael Bloomberg, the city's free-marketeer and philanthropist mayor, has overseen aggressive and effective measures to help reduce smoking and the consumption of unhealthy food and drink, and to promote physical activity.
His local and national counterparts around the world need to do the same – and more.
Four big killers – cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory disease and diabetes – alone account for more than half of the globe's nearly 60m deaths each year.
Dealing with the four big causes – tobacco use, harmful alcohol use, unhealthy diet and lack of physical activity – could substantially cut the human and economic toll they impose.
While such “non-communicable” diseases have long dominated mortality and morbidity in the rich world, they now represent a dark underside of the economic growth that has brought substantial prosperity to lower-income countries in recent decades.
In most of the developing world except Africa, they now cause more deaths than infectious diseases such as HIV and malaria, and disproportionately affect younger, working people.
Even in the poorest nations, non-communicable diseases are growing fast, mirroring lifestyles of industrialised countries, and imposing extra burdens on already weak health systems.
The evidence suggests simple and relatively cheap policies could make a big difference.
The greatest impact would be made by further extension of anti-tobacco measures including higher taxes, smoking bans in public places, enhanced warnings and outlawing advertising.
Similar measures for alcohol as well as for reduced salt and trans fats in food, and more consistent and wider use of medicines for diabetes and cardiovascular disease, would also pay off.
Individuals have the right to indulge in occasional excesses of food, drink and smoking.
But they also have responsibilities, especially when their actions inflict costs on the rest of society through avoidable medical treatment, passive smoking, or alcohol-fuelled violence and road accidents.
Businesses should play a part in combating non-communicable disease, contributing through measures such as salt, sugar and fat reduction in their products, and more responsible marketing that does not target children or glamorise overconsumption.
Their willingness to launch such initiatives voluntarily should be encouraged.
But compulsory measures may also be necessary to ensure consistent, universal implementation.
Standards for healthier food, for instance, should apply to all food and drink manufacturers and retailers, and not be biased against multinational corporations while letting local cafés off the hook.
Governments need to step up their own actions to improve health, for example ensuring that urban planning and design encourage exercise, and raising the standards of school meals.
Richer countries could give more help to poorer ones: just 3 per cent of overseas development aid currently goes towards fighting non-communicable diseases.
Developing nations should also spend more of their own budgets on the issue, using new technology and aggressive prevention techniques to build strong primary healthcare systems that “leapfrog” their richer peers' costly hospital-based care.
This week's high-level meeting is making a good start by raising the profile of the topic.
By the time world leaders come back next year, more tangible targets need to have been set, against which they can be held to account.
Without action, the world will be sicker than it needs to be – and poorer for it.