Whatever UN inspectors find as they visit the sites of last week's disputed chemical weapons attacks in the suburbs of Damascus, a western strike on Syrian military assets seems increasingly likely.
Bashar al-Assad has prevented any inspection long enough to ensure much of the evidence is likely to have been tainted or even evaporated.
Washington is right to dismiss the regime's acceptance of UN inspectors as too little, too late.
Mr Assad's battle to hold on to power at any cost – including the lives of some 100,000 Syrians – is founded on the assumption the international community is too divided to act with  conviction.
He has exploited the divisions to take the war on his own people to terrifying extremes.
Syria's president will be gambling that allowing the inspectors in will deepen divisions over the appropriate response to his apparent use of weapons of mass destruction.
But this is a gamble he cannot be allowed to win.
Of course the inspectors have to be given a chance to assess the situation.
But they should be clear very quickly whether they believe the evidence has been compromised.
That chemical weapons were used seems all but certain.
The weight of evidence also points to culpability of the Assad regime.
It controls enormous stockpiles of chemical weapons, has the military capability to deploy them, and was conducting an offensive in the area on the day of the attack.
Fragmented and ill-equipped rebel forces do not have the resources for such an offensive.
This is the basis on which the US, Britain and France are leading a push for targeted military action.
Intervention is not about entering Syria's civil war.
It is about sending a message to rogue states that the use of WMD will not be tolerated.
Moscow and Beijing will veto any Security Council resolution sanctioning military action.
Their support has enabled Mr Assad to shrug off international warnings as hollow threats.
But in Kosovo in 1999 the international community acted on humanitarian grounds, without Security Council backing, and its actions have long since been validated.
Since then the international community has accepted the principle it has a responsibility to intervene to prevent atrocities such as those being inflicted on civilians in Syria.
Officials suggest intervention would be limited to a few targeted strikes on military assets – airfields or missile sites.
This is understandable given the desire of western powers not to be drawn into a protracted civil war.
While some will argue that such action is merely symbolic, it will send an important signal to the Assad regime – and other regimes – that the west cannot countenance the use of chemical weapons.
President Barack Obama has come reluctantly to the point of considering action despite his tough words last year that chemical weapons were a red line.
Failure to act decisively would weaken his credibility further.
Despite the powerful moral arguments for intervention, memories of the mistakes over Iraq and the west's interference with the UN WMD inspectors there make this all the more contentious a decision.
It is imperative that if strikes are launched, hard evidence is eventually produced that the Assad regime was behind last week's attacks.
Any action should also be backed by broad international consensus, including from the Arab League.
The legal basis for intervention – especially in the absence of Security Council approval – also has to be clarified.
Finally, though a strike will make brokering a peace harder, Russia and the US should keep pushing the rebels and the regime to negotiate to a political solution.
Military action bears risks.
There are no good options to resolve the threat that Mr Assad poses to his own people and the wider world.
But to do nothing would be the worst one of all.