One must have a heart of stone and a head of mush not to welcome the economic renaissance of Africa and its businesses, which a Financial Times series is mapping this week.
Still, counting a once forgotten continent's new-found blessings should not blur a critical look at the challenges that remain.
Many of the world's fastest-growing countries since 2000 – albeit from a very low base – have been African.
The continent's forecast growth rate exceeds Asia's.
Helping to power this progress is a homegrown business sector.
Part of the success reflects the removal of the extreme policy mistakes of socialist state planning in the 1960s and 1970s and excessive liberalisation and state downsizing in the 1980s.
Today, African political leadership is better than it was in many places, if mixed overall.
Most leaders now seem willing to let markets do what they do best.
This pragmatism has been complemented by a number of lucky strikes.
The global commodities boom has fuelled economic activity on this resource cornucopia of a continent.
The mobile telecommunications revolution has swept across Africa, with new markets and innovative services riding its coattails from retail finance to medical information provision.
Hoping that one-off boosters will continue to arrive is no strategy for sustained growth.
The future remains in the balance, to be determined in part by the continent's current youth bulge.
Asia's growth revolutions show what can be achieved if a demographic transition – a temporarily larger proportion of working-age adults – is handled properly.
But it is a window of growth opportunity that will not be open for ever.
So far, Africa's youth, better educated than ever, face largely jobless growth.
Making the most of their potential means adding more value within Africa, as Lamido Sanusi, Nigeria's central bank governor, wrote in the Financial Times.
This requires better infrastructure in all senses: physical, logistical, human.
Railways, roads and ports must keep improving and tie African countries closer to each other, not just to the rest of the world.
Financial markets must broaden and deepen.
More must be invested in education and health.
Agriculture in particular needs attention: it can be a source of both employment and growth.
It is the duty of states to secure these public goods to match business's contribution to growth so that liberated but sensibly regulated markets can create lasting prosperity in Africa as they have done everywhere else.