It did not take long for Cory Booker, Newark's Democratic mayor, to “clarify” his criticisms of Barack Obama's campaign.
On Sunday morning Mr Booker described the blistering attack on Mitt Romney's private equity record as “nauseating”.
By the afternoon it was fair game.
Such is the flurry of campaign news cycles. And we are still almost six months away from the election.
Yet Mr Booker's initial comments offer a good indicator of what lies ahead in this year's election.
Of course, it was ever thus.
But 2012 brings two additional reasons for supposing this race will be nastier than normal.
First, it looks like it is going to be very close.
Polls show the two candidates are neck and neck against a backdrop of widespread apathy.
The combination is telling: the less motivated the voter, the more cartoonish the politics.
The best parallel is 2004 when George W. Bush pipped John Kerry to the post after a brutal character assassination.
It has become common to predict 2012 will be “Swift Boats on steroids”.
Mr Obama has long been used to vicious whispering campaigns about his race, land of birth and religion.
Mr Romney is getting used to similar.
Second, the gloves came off in 2010 when the Supreme Court removed virtually any restraint on spending by outside entities. The impact was instant.
So far in this campaign, so-called super-Pacs – outside groups nominally independent of the candidates they support – have doubled the amount of private spending over the last cycle.
The biggest such group, Crossroads GPS, which is run by Karl Rove, Mr Bush's former “boy wonder”, is on target to raise up to $300m.
This is three times Mr Bush's total spending in 2000. Even accounting for inflation, such sums are without precedent.
Let us hope that the super-Pacs do not hijack the entire campaign. Only the nominees can prevent that.
It is illegal for candidates to communicate directly with super-Pac allies.
Yet in practice, it is they who set the tone.
Mr Obama and Mr Romney would do each other and America a service if they called on their wealthy supporters to stick to the issues.
Since the candidates cannot do so privately, they should reach for the nearest megaphone.
They should also set an example in how they manage their own campaigns.
Mr Booker was right to attack Mr Obama.
There are more than enough policy differences to fill a campaign without impugning your opponent's character.