Vladimir Putin has won the expected first-round victory in Russia's presidential election.
But this is not business as usual.
The middle-class protests of recent weeks show that politics, after a 12-year slumber, have reawoken.
Just months ago, it was assumed Mr Putin could be back for two more presidential terms.
Instead, yesterday's poll marks the beginning of what is in all probability his final six-year term;
the beginning of the end of the Putin era.
Two big questions remain.
One is whether Mr Putin will even complete the full six years of the coming term.
The second is whether the Putin “system”, even if in modified form, will survive under a new leader from within the ruling group, or whether it will sooner or later give way to something new – in an orderly or disorderly way.
What is clear is that Mr Putin's popularity is in decline.
Pre-election polls suggested he now enjoys less than 50 per cent support in Moscow and St Petersburg, Russia's political capitals.
His base remains stronger in rustbelt cities and the countryside.
But even there, focus group research and anecdotal evidence suggest creeping disillusionment.
The discontent is not, primarily, economic.
Russians live far better today than when Mr Putin became president 12 years ago, thanks to soaring oil prices.
Working-class Russians are often more reliant on the state for jobs and benefits, and so less ready to go on to the streets.
But they share many middle-class concerns: rampant corruption, official cronyism, lack of representation and legal protections.
The surge in living standards that once anaesthetised them against these downsides of Putinism has slowed.
And barring further, unlikely, oil price rises, Russia's growth outlook is today less rosy.
A decline in Mr Putin's popularity has important implications.
Broad support from ordinary Russians has been the foundation of his authority. It enabled him to consolidate the elites – oligarchs, security services, senior bureaucrats – who run Russia in the absence of real democratic institutions.
If his support wanes further, the elites could fracture and start promoting alternative candidates, with unpredictable consequences.
One potential way to resuscitate Mr Putin's popularity would be to tackle Russians' concerns over corruption and rule of law head-on, and to conduct economic reforms to stimulate investment and growth.
Those things are challenging.
But Russia has detailed liberalising plans drawn up, and resources to cushion the social impact.
It has six years in which it could start modernising what is now a middle-income country, and prepare it for genuinely free presidential elections in 2018.
It could be done.
More likely, sadly, the regime will attempt to buy popularity with a spending spree that, with Russia's budget already requiring oil at $120 a barrel to break even, could threaten its hard-won fiscal stability.
Real reform threatens vested interests around Mr Putin.
We can only hope the returning president is sincere, at least, in claiming the Kremlin does not plan a post-election crackdown on opposition.
In response, the west must tread a fine line.
It should continue to entice Russia to be a responsible member of the international community, drawing it into institutions such as the World Trade Organisation.
But it should not hesitate to target officials involved in abuses such as the death of the lawyer Sergei Magnitsky.
It should engage with the liberal opposition, but avoid heavy-handed “democracy promotion” that would fuel Mr Putin's unfounded claims that protests against him are a western plot.
Without interfering, it should do everything possible to help ensure the Putin era ends not in disorder, but with a calm transition to a more democratic, rules-based future.