“A billion here, a billion there, and pretty soon you are talking real money,” the US senator Everett Dirksen once remarked.
How Jamie Dimon at JPMorgan Chase must yearn for that kinder, gentler era when bankers' fines were set in mere single-digit billions.
US regulators are close to presenting the US banking group with a $13bn bill for alleged mis-selling of mortgage-backed securities.
Not only would this be the largest fine ever levied on a US corporation, it comes without any waiver from prosecution.
JPMorgan must both pay and run the risk of being damned by criminal indictment.
The details of the settlement have yet to emerge, so it is unclear precisely what JPMorgan is alleged to have done and what admissions the bank may have made.
But already Wall Street is up in arms about the scale of the fine and its apparent arbitrariness.
The sense of outrage stems from JPMorgan's role in the financial crisis.
Although the bank was not immune from involvement in the market for mortgage-backed securities, many of the instruments that have drawn regulators' ire came with its 2008 purchases of Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual.
The bank bought these crippled institutions at the behest of the Bush administration.
Not only does it seem ungrateful for Uncle Sam to punish JPMorgan for playing the role of good corporate citizen; it may be counter-productive.
A future administration confronting a similar panic might find it even harder to recruit rescuers for failing banks than was the case in the financial crisis.
The putative settlement is a personal slap in the face for Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive.
It also reflects a far harsher regulatory landscape.
This year has seen the Securities and Exchange Commission mount its first criminal prosecution of a Wall Street firm in more than a decade.
Mr Dimon, fresh from a regulatory mauling over the London whale case, has reason to feel sore.
But JPMorgan cannot abdicate all responsibility for its predicament.
The bank bought Bear Stearns and WaMu with open eyes, seeking to take advantage of its relative good health to expand its business dramatically.
In the case of Bear Stearns, Mr Dimon also received substantial help from the US government, which promised to cover losses on $30bn of the acquired bank's most toxic assets.
Of course, its role as rescuer did not absolve it from the need to do diligence and accept legal liabilities not covered by indemnity, but the Feds have nonetheless taken a very tough line.
The scale of the fines will need to be justified by something other than the desire to make a political point.
Were the government to prosecute JPMorgan for the behaviour of Bear Stearns or WaMu before the deals, it would risk sending a signal that potential rescuers of troubled banks should steer clear.
One would hope that no bank will have to play the rescue role JPMorgan played in 2008.
Alas we cannot be certain.
In these circumstances, Washington should be wary of humiliating JPMorgan.