A company choosing to hire from a group often thought of as unemployable would be good news at any time.
It is particularly welcome when much of the rich world is still in or near recession, and whole generations are wasting away to unemployment.
SAP, the German software maker, wants to hire hundreds of workers with autism or related conditions for jobs in coding and product testing.
Many higher-functioning autists have above- average logical abilities and attention to detail, but struggle with normal social interaction.
This means they can be exceptional at certain jobs but not good at being hired for them through processes such as interviews.
As Specialisterne, the Danish organisation that specialises in recruiting and employing autists, points out, actively recruiting people with the condition makes business sense for the same reason as removing career roadblocks for women or ethnic minorities.
Aside from any reputational benefits, it focuses employers on talent pools that they might otherwise neglect, through prejudice or ignorance.
Specialisterne employs and trains autists, and sells their IT consulting services on a commercial basis.
The group plans to teach SAP its recruitment and training process so that the software giant can hire workers directly.
Specialisterne argues that besides IT, its workers are well suited for detailed processing tasks such as medical trials reporting and checks on bank transactions.
One can only wish SAP and Specialisterne success.
To get more people with an autism condition into gainful employment, at market wages, is a blessing to the individuals concerned. It is also a true economic and social contribution.
Many a US mortgage holder would surely have preferred a socially awkward but expert human data controller to the robosigning that has led to improper foreclosures.
There are wider lessons to draw for businesses and policy makers.
If autists – often perceived as unable to function in a workplace – can thrive on the job, it should be possible to include those with other handicaps, too.
The same is true for the rising number of people who fall outside the labour market because failed social or educational policies leave them without employable skills.
Businesses should see what their recruitment policy can take from the method or spirit of this case.
Governments should ask why private groups can succeed where they generally fail.
For both, talent is a terrible thing to waste.