Recent revelations that many companies pay vanishingly little corporate tax have laid bare serious shortcomings in the international tax system.
This has created a groundswell of demands for reform that politicians, struggling to make ends meet in a post-crisis world, are readier to meet.
The plan produced by the OECD for the Group of 20 leading economies is an attempt to translate clamour into action.
The OECD is right about the need for change.
Existing international tax rules were designed decades ago in an era before tax havens and the digital economy.
They have not kept up as the world has changed around them.
Creative use of transfer pricing and the ambiguity surrounding the location of transactions in cyber space has enabled multinationals to book ever more of their profits in low-tax jurisdictions.
Companies have become expert at exploiting the cracks between different systems to take charges against tax in one place while incurring no corresponding cost in another.
Diagnosing the problem is easier than solving it.
Notwithstanding the loss of public confidence, there is a free-rider problem: each country would like everyone else to stamp out avoidance without having to touch its own companies.
Many states design their tax systems to attract inward investment and give their own countries a leg-up when they trade abroad.
Within the G20 there are divisions between emerging and developed economies.
Countries such as India would like multinationals to pay more tax in the countries where they do business.
Advanced economies, with their greater reliance on overseas income, especially from intangibles, are more wary.
The best outcome would be an international agreement on how to link tax bases to real economic activity and limit the creation of brass-plate subsidiaries whose sole purpose is to locate the most profitable parts of businesses in low-tax jurisdictions or in no jurisdiction at all.
But a global deal is a tall order and the OECD sets aside such radical reform in favour of a more incremental approach.
It remains to be seen whether states can rise to the challenge and act together under the OECD's aegis.
They need to amend ill-designed national rules and bilateral treaties whose aim of no double taxation has had the effect of double no-taxation.
Without such action, the risk is that they will act unilaterally to the detriment of global trade.
The report is a start but there is much work to do.