In the crisis, governments rode to the rescue not just of banks, but of auto manufacturers.
The two sectors teach different lessons.
The latest news from the car industry shows that state intervention can be successful – but only if it plays according to capitalist rules.
Fiat, the Italian carmaker that invested in Chrysler on the latter's exit from bankruptcy, has said it will exercise an option to raise its stake in the US auto manufacturer from its current 30 per cent to 46 per cent.
As a condition for the deal, Chrysler will repay a $7bn-loan it received from the US and Canadian governments during the financial crisis.
This is a good deal, both for US taxpayers and for the car makers.
If Fiat meets one more technical hurdle set in its original deal with the US government, it may up its share further to reach 51 per cent.
This would go a long way to meet the ambition of Fiat's boss, Sergio Marchionne, to consolidate the two companies into a global giant.
The US government will get back the funds it injected into Chrysler during its bankruptcy workout.
Workers who own most of Chrysler through their union could see their holdings increase in value.
In the depths of the global economic crisis, the US government was not the only one feeling forced to put taxpayers' money on the line to prevent car manufacturers from imploding.
The network of businesses tied into the car industry means that far more jobs are at risk than those at carmakers themselves.
But prolonged state involvement in bloated auto sectors is a disease and not a cure.
Carmaking is plagued by chronic overcapacity: manufacturers today have the means to make 94m cars a year, but can sell only 64m.
Any intervention to tide a company over a short-term crisis must in return address this oversupply.
The US rightly let Chrysler and General Motors file for bankruptcy before issuing loans to help with a necessary restructuring.
That gave the government the freedom and the power to shake things up – and hopefully make a profit.
A tough and able task force oversaw Chrysler's tie-up with Fiat and savage job losses at GM.
At the same time in Europe, politicians deflected by special interests were unwilling to close unproductive plants.
A case in point was Germany's cold shoulder to two parties interested in taking Opel over from GM – Fiat and Belgian investment group RHJ.
The future for carmakers lies in fewer but bigger production lines.
Only tough love from governments can make that happen.