It was to avoid collisions on the early railways that the Victorians replaced local mean times, one for each town, with a national standard for synchronising Britain's clocks.
Technology continues to multiply the ways in which we can be touched by distant developments.
But the solutions are no longer so simple.
In a report published yesterday, the Oxford Martin Commission for Future Generations argues that the challenges of the coming century will overwhelm the institutions we inherited from the last.
The problems are daunting.
Our planet is growing warmer.
International travel spreads diseases that are resistant to old cures.
Global trade and finance create wealth but expose us to faraway storms.
The problems of the industrial revolution called for stronger national government.
But the world's challenges are now too large for a single state to solve.
The US is losing interest in many of the international institutions it helped found after the second world war.
China, no longer disposed to play by America's rules, is nonetheless unwilling to fashion a new order of its own.
The commission – which is chaired by Pascal Lamy, the former director-general of the World Trade Organisation, and counts the editor of the Financial Times among its members – wisely eschews utopian solutions, proposing a series of focused initiatives.
A world statistical agency would improve standards and cast light on places such as Africa where number-crunchers have feared to tread. An alliance of countries, cities and companies would commit to use energy more efficiently.
The commission also puts forward some broader principles.
Pointing out that none of the 20 or so agencies set up under UN auspices has ever been shut down, it suggests subjecting such bodies to “sunset clauses”.
That would prevent bureaucracies from outliving their usefulness.
Yet the current stalemate in Washington attests to the drawbacks of obliging politicians to fight periodic reruns of old battles.
The commission also laments the absence of a shared vision for global civilisation.
But such consensus is difficult to imagine, let alone achieve.
Still, the commission has put forward some constructive proposals and advanced an important debate.
The institutions that the world is now outgrowing were themselves fashioned by practical and optimistic men and women.
That same spirit animates the commission's report, and remains humanity's hope.