The best to be said for the Beijing-Brussels compromise over the trade in solar panels is that it has averted a wider trade war between China and the EU.
But peace has been bought at the price of selling out the interests of ordinary Europeans and the environment to the bad practices of corporatism.
Following an anti-dumping investigation, Karel De Gucht, the EU's trade commissioner, imposed tariffs of 11.8 per cent on solar panels imported from China. These were set to jump to 47.6 per cent next week.
Instead a deal was struck to let Chinese companies sell up to 7GW of capacity into the EU a year so long as they undertake not to undercut an agreed floor price.
Otherwise the full import duty will apply.
This “compromise” is possibly even worse than the unilateral action Mr De Gucht had first threatened.
The price commitment-cum-quota inflicts the same harm as outright tariffs on Europeans eager to “green” their energy consumption.
A higher purchase price for solar panels discourages their installation, which penalises not just consumers but installers and makers of polysilicon – the high-tech raw material some European producers have been supplying to Chinese solar cell manufacturers.
Unilateral action would at least have recaptured the margin in the form of tariff revenue Europe could have put to sensible use.
Now the surcharge – albeit not as big as once looked possible – will rebound to Chinese producers.
In effect, the commission has secured Beijing's help to build a cartel.
The one benefit to a European constituency is the lifeline thrown to the region's own panel manufacturing.
But even this is unlikely to be more than temporary relief;
and favouring narrow industries with lobbying power over consumers without it is rarely good policy in any case.
As for other industries, Mr De Gucht had better be right that the agreed distortion will forestall any move by China to retaliate with duties on European polysilicon – as it has imposed on the US and Korea – or wine.
Both industries have been targeted in Beijing's tit-for-tat investigations.
It was an unforced error to trigger this dispute to begin with.
By pushing ahead with an ill-judged cause, all that Mr De Gucht secured was a bad policy outcome.
In the process, he exposed European disunity that Beijing pounced to exploit.
The best hope now is that a trade war is indeed averted, and that Mr De Gucht has not so undermined his authority as to weaken his hand in any future – more meritorious – disputes.