The International Monetary Fund has raised a warning flag about the risks of ultra-loose monetary policy.
In its Global Financial Stability Report, the IMF worries that excessive easing may lead banks to postpone the necessary adjustment after the excesses of the past.
There is also a risk that cheap money could prop up new bubbles.
While policy makers should monitor both threats via prudential regulation, it is not yet time to tighten monetary policy.
The case for maintaining low interest rates and for continuing to pursue unconventional monetary policy is strengthened by another document released by the IMF this week – its Global Economic Outlook.
The fund has downgraded its economic forecast for global growth in 2013, cutting it 0.2 percentage points to 3.3 per cent.
In the three-speed world described by Christine Lagarde, IMF managing director, developed economies are lagging behind emerging markets.
While the US is showing promising signs of buoyancy, the EU and Japan look stuck.
The accusation that should be levelled at central bankers around the world is that they did too little, too late – not too much.
True, the Federal Reserve has acted forcefully, unleashing three rounds of quantitative easing and committing to keep monetary policy loose until the recovery is in full swing.
But it has taken the Bank of Japan decades to understand that it needed a bazooka, not a water pistol, to fight deflation.
Mario Draghi's vow to do “whatever it takes” to save the euro has reassured markets, but the European Central Bank stubbornly keeps its policy rate at 0.75 per cent.
Tightening monetary policy now would mean choking off the recovery.
Critics would have a point if there were signs of accelerating inflation.
But the only developed country where prices are creeping up is Britain. Even there, inflation is a moderate 2.8 per cent.
A bigger risk, for example in the most troubled parts of the euro area, is deflation.
Falling prices would raise real interest rates, acting as a further drag on growth.
Policy makers may worry about the risk of asset bubbles. But, at least in the developed world, there are still too few signs that asset prices are overvalued.
The recent buoyancy of the equity market can help the recovery, for example via wealth effects. Individuals and institutions are feeling richer and will therefore spend more.
Lower rates on high-yield “junk” bonds can also be a good thing.
These instruments are a favourite form of financing for many medium-sized companies.
If they can borrow cheaply, it is easier to invest.
The threat policy makers should mainly focus on is complacency.
Ultra-loose monetary policy allows financial institutions to delay the necessary post-crisis healing.
As the IMF acknowledges, banks in the US have done a much better job than their European counterparts at recognising losses on their balance sheets.
They also have stronger capital buffers to withstand future shocks.
European and British banks still have some work to do. Excessive forbearance makes lenders vulnerable.
It also prevents them from lending to new businesses, which is vital for the recovery.
New rounds of bank recapitalisation can no longer remain a pious aspiration, but must be acted upon.
Finally, the eurozone should stop unpicking the good work it has done on banking union, which is crucial to rebuild confidence in its financial system.
The agreement over the single supervisor should be complemented by a deal on the single resolution mechanism.
As the Cypriot case shows, banking crises remain a real threat.
The IMF is right to warn about the risks facing financial institutions.
But policy makers should not jump to the wrong conclusion.
Fixing the banks needs prudential plumbing, not bluntly closing the monetary taps.