The agreement that broke the impasse over the US debt ceiling came with hours to spare before the Treasury's deadline.
From today, had no agreement been reached, the US government would have had to stop meeting some of its obligations.
This months-long pantomime may call to mind Winston Churchill's remark that Amer- icans can always be counted on to do the right thing, after all other possibilities have been exhausted.
That judgment would be too kind.
Avoiding default had become the overriding priority, and that has been achieved.
The deal fails to put US budget policy on a sustainable path, however: despite all the tearing of hair and beating of breasts, the fiscal adjustment is modest and by no means guaranteed.
The budget quarrels will go on – in a political atmosphere more poisonous than before, if that were possible.
The debt-ceiling agreement is complicated and opaque.
Critics in both parties complain that, after frantic private negotiations among a handful of participants, Congress was presented with a fait accompli.
Voters should feel equally aggriev- ed.
This was the very opposite of the public debate that the US needs on budgetary ends and means.
As for the details, the plan calls for spending cuts of roughly $900bn over 10 years, followed by a second phase of cuts to bring the 10-year total to about $2,400bn.
If achieved in full, this is only a little more than half of what is required to stabilise the ratio of public debt to gross domestic product at a safe level.
Worse, most of these cuts are still unspecified.
The second instalment is a mere instruction to a new bipartisan committee of Congress to propose deficit reductions sufficient to meet the target.
There is no agreement on what form these should take.
If the committee deadlocks, the deal provides for automatic cuts to programmes cherished by one party or the other – including, notably, cuts in defence, which Republicans are traditionally keen to protect.
This calls to mind another Churchillian maxim: however beautiful the strategy, occasionally look at the results.
What reason is there to suppose, if both parties face deep cuts in programmes they especially wish to protect, that Congress will let the automatic mechanism proceed?
What Congress gives, Congress can take away.
The designers of the so-called trigger say their deliberately unacceptable automatic cuts give both sides an incentive to reach agreement in the committee.
Maybe.
But if the committee fails, both sides in Congress have an even bigger incentive to cancel the trigger.
And one can be reasonably confident that the committee will indeed deadlock.
Already, arguments have begun about who will be appointed to this panel.
Both parties are insisting that hard-liners get the job, so that their respective policy priorities will not be bargained away.
Renewed paralysis is about to be designed back into the process.
One of the most consequential disagreements over US fiscal policy is about the role, if any, that tax increases should play alongside spending cuts.
Most Republicans are celebrating victory in the debt deal, and Democrats lamenting a crushing defeat, because tax increases are not in the plan.
But this vital question is not settled, merely evaded.
The White House says the deal improves the chances of increasing taxes on “millionaires and billionaires” starting in 2013.
The GOP says the opposite.
Neither side has yet turned serious attention to where it belongs – comprehensive tax reform.
In one way, it is a blessing that the deal is timid, especially in 2012 and 2013.
With the economy showing worsening signs of weakness, medium-term fiscal consolidation should have been combined with further short-term stimulus: renewed payroll tax-relief and extended unemployment benefits.
Deficit reduction phases in slowly under the agreement, which is something, but those needed temporary provisions are nowhere to be seen.
One could go on.
The labours of the past several months have avoided what would have been the greatest unforced error in the history of economic policy.
Congratulations on that.
But they have settled almost nothing, and have prepared the way for more of the same.
It is a dismal and confidence-sapping prospect.
President Barack Obama and the parties' leaders in Congress should stop and think.
What the world has witnessed is a serious failure of governance.
If the US cannot mend what is broken in its politics, the consequences for itself and the world will be grave.