An empty deal would be worse than no deal at all, said the White House before Mr Obama travelled to the Copenhagen summit.
As the meeting ended, Barack Obama was calling the Copenhagen accord – the emptiest deal one could imagine, short of a fist fight – an “important breakthrough”.
Mr Obama's credibility at home and abroad is one casualty of this farcical outcome.
The agreement cobbled together by the US, China, India, Brazil and South Africa is merely an expression of aims.
It recognises the scientific case for keeping the rise in global temperatures to 2°C.
It calls on developed countries to provide $100bn a year in support of poor nations' efforts by 2020, but without saying who pays what to whom.
It appears to commit none of the signatories to anything.
Many developing countries were bitter about this result.
Europe may wonder why it has been airbrushed out of the picture.
The meeting as a whole could not bring itself to endorse this vacuous proclamation. It took note of it.
One wonders how a conference to conclude two years of detailed negotiations, building on more than a decade of previous talks, could have collapsed into such a shambles.
It is as though no preparatory work had been done.
Consensus on the most basic issues was lacking.
Were countries there to negotiate binding limits on emissions or not?
Nobody seemed to know.
From the start, the disarray was total.
In this, at least, the attention to detail was impressive.
The organisers invited more people to the event than could be accommodated, and were puzzled when they arrived.
Delegates queued in the freezing cold for hours, a scene that summed it all up.
The organisers had planned a celebration of a grand new global pact – but the party was a disaster and they forgot to bring the agreement.
Governments need to understand, even if they cannot say so, that Copenhagen was worse than useless.
If you draw the world's attention to an event of this kind, you have to deliver, otherwise the political impetus is lost.
To declare what everybody knows to be a failure a success is feeble, and makes matters worse.
Loss of momentum is now the danger.
In future, governments must observe the golden rule of international co-operation: agree first, arrange celebrations and photo opportunities later.
Aside from that, what does Copenhagen reveal about the obstacles to progress – and how can these best be overcome?
Climate change requires global co-operation, to be sure, because the global stock of greenhouse gases is the driver.
Collective action is essential.
The free-rider problem is obvious and has to be addressed.
But the maximalist approach to this, a global treaty with binding caps on emissions, is going to be extraordinarily difficult to achieve.
Even if the will were there enforcing the caps would be a problem, as the Kyoto protocol amply attests.
If the maximalist model can be revived in time for next December's scheduled conference in Mexico, well and good: the key thing, though, is that progress should not be held hostage to it.
The need is for greater pragmatism and flexibility.
The US and China can take the lead.
In Copenhagen, friction between the two was evident, with the US calling for independent verification of emissions reductions, and China resisting infringements of its sovereignty.
In fact the two countries are not so far apart: the US Congress is as jealous of national sovereignty, and as wary of international obligations, as China.
Both countries should lead by example, with unilateral low-cost carbon-abatement policies already announced or under consideration: cap and trade in the US, measures to reduce carbon intensity in China.
The international framework need not insist on lock-step agreement. Above all, it should not obstruct policies that push the right way.
In the long run, broad parity of effort is necessary, but this can be gauged in a variety of ways.
Monitoring the effective price of carbon is a less demanding basis of co- operation than binding quantitative limits set decades in advance.
The international framework should stretch to accommodate this softer mode of co-ordination.
Generous aid to developing countries for greenhouse gas abatement is warranted, but should be negotiated separately.
Again, the need is to unpack the problem into manageable pieces.
Copenhagen has shown the limits to the current approach.
Reviving international co-operation is of paramount importance.
This can best be done by asking less of it.