When Mr Obama visits Asia, he does so as head of state of a battered superpower.
No better symptom of US frailty can be found than the dollar — the currency in which Asians have invested so much of their people's hard-earned wealth.
But Mr Obama can only grin and ask his hosts to bear it.
He does not have the means to rescue the US dollar, on his own.
No better symptom of aversion to the US currency — managed by a central bank determined to blow new bubbles, critics complain — can apparently be found than the jump in the dollar price of gold.
This is up 56 per cent over the past year, driven, in part, by fears of Asians over their financial future.
Over the same 12 months, the Federal Reserve's broad, trade-weighted, nominal exchange rate index has lost only 8 per cent of its value. It is still 8 per cent higher than in July 2008, before the flight to the safe haven of the dollar triggered by the post-Lehman crisis.
Thus, the huge jump in the price of gold suggests a flight from currencies, in general, rather than one from the dollar, in particular.
Of the other ""big four"" currencies — the euro, the yen, the renminbi and the pound — only the yen is much higher against the dollar than in July 2008.
Yet all, except the renminbi, managed by the Chinese to remain constant, since July 2008, have risen against the US currency since March 2009.
What we can observe, then, are three phenomena: generalised concern about currencies; an as yet incomplete reversal of the strengthening of the dollar during the crisis; and a determination by the Chinese authorities to avoid appreciation against the dollar since the serious crisis began.
Meanwhile, markets for conventional government bonds hardly suggest inflation panic, with interest rates on 10-year bonds at 3.4 per cent in the US and 3.9 per cent in the UK.
Comparisons with the prices of inflation-indexed government bonds suggest some upward drift in inflation expectations, but not to extreme levels.
Spreads on riskier bonds also remain well contained — too much so, say those already fearing new bubbles.
Mr Obama's Asian critics will still complain that he is not doing enough to ensure the long-term health of the dollar.
He must respond that the US can close its fiscal deficit only if it can shift into export-led growth.
That depends on changes in policies in Asia, not least in China.
Above all, Mr Obama should say, the two sides need to co-operate if they are to achieve an exit satisfactory to both.
Inflationary meltdown is not inevitable.
But a move back to healthier US public finances depends, inescapably, on a strong recovery in the US economy.
US policymakers cannot achieve this on their own.
They need help.
It is in the long-run interests of Asians to provide it.