For the past 40 years, peace and prosperity have gone hand-in-hand in east Asia.
China's astonishing transformation since 1978 was based on an official policy known as “peaceful rise”.
Japan's earlier economic ascent occurred under a pacifist, postwar constitution.
However, a shadow now hangs over the region.
Tensions are rising between China and its neighbours.
In recent months, China and Japan have indulged in military shadowboxing over some disputed islands in the East China Sea.
Several other Asian nations are also worried that Beijing is taking a tougher line over its territorial claims in disputed maritime waters.
In recent years, east Asians have done well to ensure that difficult political relations do not interfere with flourishing business ties.
This time, however, there are signs that events could run out of control.
Anti-Japanese riots in China resulted in the trashing of a Japanese-owned shopping mall.
Many Japanese companies are said to be reconsidering investment in mainland China.
There is also a genuine risk that military tensions could escalate.
This would have global implications, since the US has made it clear that the disputed islands are covered by the US-Japan Security Treaty.
All of the major Pacific powers need to do their bit to head off the danger.
The biggest responsibility lies with China.
There is a palpable nervousness in the region that the Communist party – under the new leader Xi Jinping – may now embrace a more assertive nationalism.
It is, however, hugely in China's interests for Mr Xi to remain wedded to the concept of “peaceful rise”.
The new Japanese government led by Shinzo Abe also has its responsibilities.
The rhetoric of Mr Abe and some of his nationalist allies has been pointlessly offensive to China – particularly in its refusal to recognise the crimes committed by the Japanese Imperial Army during the second world war.
Mr Abe should also avoid heightening tensions in the islands dispute by sending Japanese officials to live on these barren rocks and eschew nationalist gestures.
The US, too, has a role to play.
The Americans know that many Chinese have interpreted President Barack Obama's “pivot to Asia” as code for an effort to thwart China's rise.
The US denies this – saying that the pivot involves efforts to develop trade and business links that will benefit both nations.
Over the coming year, the US should demonstrate that its rhetoric is for real.