For all the consternation in the City of London about what will happen to bankers' pay, the bigger question about the bonus cap set to be included in the EU's capital rules is what it means for the UK's future relationship with Europe.
If a tentative compromise sticks between the European parliament and the Irish presidency of the European council, EU-based banks will have to limit bonuses to staff to a maximum percentage of their salaries.
George Osborne, UK chancellor, may still push for exemptions, but the fact that he is fighting for scraps testifies to a fundamental change in Britain's ability to get its way in Europe.
Until recently, disparaging attitudes towards Europe in UK public opinion contrasted with British leaders' willingness and ability to work with European counterparts and secure important victories for UK interests.
In particular, London could count on not being outvoted on financial regulation.
This has changed with the crisis, Europe's response of tighter and more common control of financial and economic policy, and the UK's detachment from this process.
Britain's privileged interest in finance now commands less respect.
That in turn could weigh on the promised referendum on EU membership.
Domestically, the coalition government has its work cut out. It will take fiendish rhetorical skill to explain why the UK is kicking up a fight for its bankers' right to be paid huge bonuses.
For the Conservative party, this will at least appeal to its base – for which Brussels-bashing beats banker-bashing any day.
But it may not extend Tory appeal in the centre.
If a bonus cap is a diplomatic defeat, it is one for which the UK bears much of the blame.
David Cameron, prime minister, has misjudged the European parliament, whose power was boosted by the Lisbon Treaty and which insisted on a bonus cap as a condition for putting global capital rules into EU law.
Pulling his party out of the EP's main centre-right grouping handicapped his ability to win over parliamentarians, had he had any interest in doing so.
Another error was to overestimate support from Berlin.
Other countries have long opposed the UK's stance on finance; it is German sympathy that has granted Britain an effective veto in these matters.
In this case, that sympathy seems outweighed by other considerations: a desire to get to a deal on capital requirements; suspicion of the Anglo-American way of investment banking; and, no doubt, irritation at how Britain hectors the eurozone while declining to take part in what Germany sees as solutions.
If this new reality is seen in the UK as causing real damage to the City, the consequences of Berlin's changing attitude may be more fissile than it intended.
So may another earlier choice by the UK coalition: to stand on the sidelines as the rest of Europe charts a common course, instead of remaining at the table as it used to do, and as a like-minded country such as Sweden still does.
The UK's desire to be an outsider on the inside is becoming ever harder to fulfil.