When Mario Draghi's name was first mooted as a successor to Jean-Claude Trichet at the helm of the European Central Bank, some worried that an Italian would throw monetary restraint to the wind and let the money presses run day and night.
How wrong they were.
The real worry is that, as Greek euro membership is in the balance and Italian bond yields hit record highs, Mr Draghi may be disciplined to an excess.
In his first press conference as ECB president, Mr Draghi proved that only the paranoid can put his hawkish credentials in doubt.
A quarter-point cut in the interest rate is a conservative policy.
The decision was taken unanimously – which is a tactical victory for Mr Draghi's leadership, but no marker of a change to the ECB's overly cautious approach.
The quarter-point cut was too timid for two reasons.
The first is that the eurozone's growth prospects are deteriorating at a frightening rate.
With growth slowing and the quantity of money stagnant, deflation is a greater risk than runaway inflation.
More decisive steps are needed to combat it.
By hampering growth, monetary restraint also makes it harder to solve the sovereign debt crisis, which is undermining the ECB's influence over credit conditions in affected countries and preventing it from doing its job.
An incremental rate cut will not give markets the jolt necessary to rekindle their belief that policymakers will do what it takes to solve the crisis.
Even a larger rate cut would be far from sufficient to turn markets around, of course.
To stop the run on Italian sovereign debt, policymakers need to brandish much bigger weapons than what they have yet come close to mobilising.
Until eurozone heads of government pool enough money to make it impossible to pick off one eurozone sovereign after another, only ECB bond purchases stand in the way of a complete market collapse.
Without an endorsement by those same heads of government, however, the ECB cannot credibly commit to intervening on a sufficient scale.
Yields on Greek, Portuguese, and Italian bonds show that the ECB will not change market sentiment if it pulls its punches.
At least Mr Draghi should hint that the ECB will do as much as it can.
He did the opposite by bluntly dismissing lending in the last resort and denying that he and his colleagues discussed Italian yields.
Mr Draghi must not replace Mr Trichet's “constructive ambiguity” with destructive clarity.
His job is to show independence – above all from Germany.