Get up early or night owl from it's ancestors are not from Helen Briggs reporter, BBC News to go to bed early or staying up late, such as human a variety of sleep habits of the ancestors, which is the cause of it. Bedtime is a little bit without asleep our collective life, wildlife attacked by like a sentinel was needed long ago to help and researchers say. Now also hunters and gatherers living in Tanzania's mountain and its sleep, Canada・University of Toronto Anthropology Team examine this,20 day,someone is always awake when. Research is sort out the Association Bulletin, published in. "Approximately 200 hours to continue to observe this to everyone at the same time have been asleep in just 18 minutes of all-time. It is the whole of 0. 001%of the time nothing". The study was led by David Samson, Ph. D., explains. "The median and at night, or at any time during the always adults 8 people awakening for. This is,of settlements of the adult population 4% of the equivalent. It's just the same group within the sleep time is the most consistent did not, and the other was" the study of the past, according to human circadian rhythm,or biological clock of 4~7% of the genetic depends. The rest is environmental factors and,interestingly, age affected. Temperature, wind, humidity, etc affect sleep element to be taken into consideration, the sleep patterns of difference between especially large impact of age, was Samson Dr. says. "Young is the night owl types tend to become,in the early morning than late activity peak is visited and. Take years, even a morning without that" Grandma hypothesis, older sleep patterns change as,"Granny hypothesis"is called, The Dr. explained. This hypothesis, according to the population of the elderly live with young people, while sleeping, to help the whole, to keep a watchful eye on it to evolve on its advantageous and to talk to. Samson Dr. and the research team on this,"sleep well Granny hypothesis"and the hypothesis for. That is, the elderly including the members of the age width of a group of people,the evolution on the survival and and so. Meerkat like they live in groups animals, the interval is always a sentinel there. Sentinel hypothesis called one. University of Toronto research team has this animal behaviour hypothesis in human beings for the size family observed. House Mountain is a life form thousands of years ago has changed little since. Half size tribe of about 30 people one of the populations live in. Hunter-gatherers, the prey of animals and birds, honey, berries(small berries), seeds, eating etc. Anthropologist who, according to the house size and family environment has almost all of mankind once experienced closer. The research team, a Fit Bit (activity recorder)to the volunteer's mountain pass, sleep patterns and track records. Adults are about 20 people in the population for which the 20 days,day and night-time behavior records that have happened to people who had only 18 minutes was. Sleep most of the research in the laboratory is performed. It is only the University of Toronto this study,quite a new content and have. 