

"Robots to steal 15m jobs" is the headline on the front page of the Daily Mail, which leads on a "doom-laden" speech delivered by Bank of England Governor Mark Carney.
It focuses on what it describes as his "alarming vision" that 15 million jobs could be lost because of huge advances in automation.
The Daily Telegraph leads on a warning from the governor of a growing sense of "isolation and detachment" among people who feel left behind by globalisation.
Mr Carney's forecast also appears on the front of the Times, however the paper highlights figures suggesting Britain should finish the year as the fastest growing economy of seven leading nations.
"Judges wrong about EU exit" says the headline in the Daily Express, paraphrasing the case set out to the Supreme Court by the Attorney General Jeremy Wright QC, who argued no parliamentary vote is required to trigger Article 50.
The paper is amazed that he felt the need to tell the court that successful completion of the Brexit process is "the universal expectation". "This really ought to go without saying," says the Express.
The Sun sums his case up as "Brits spoke, now it's time to listen", while the Daily Mirror said it was a "circus" and a waste of taxpayers' money, for which it blames the prime minister. It says Theresa May should accept Parliament is sovereign.
Sketch writers were underwhelmed by the pace of events. Michael Deacon in the Daily Telegraph talks of the country's eleven most senior judges filing in to the "airless, drowsy warmth of the courtroom".
Patrick Kidd in the Times recalls that it was The Supremes who once sang, "You can't hurry love".
The Guardian leads with what it says are new claims of "hush money" being paid to cover up child sex abuse in football. And the paper says prominent figures still active in football have repeatedly been named by players alleging sexual abuse in what it calls an "escalating crisis".
The Daily Mirror uses its front page to launch a campaign for a change in the law to increase the number of organs available for transplant. People would have to opt out rather than opt in, as is the case in Wales.
The paper says a poll shows 80% are happy to donate organs, but only a third are on the register. It features a three-year-old boy, Elliott Livingstone, who, it says, is excited about seeing Santa Claus for the first time after receiving the most important gift of his life - a new heart.
The Daily Mail is also campaigning to increase the number of organs donated, by encouraging people to register. It features the photos and stories of eleven people who would not still be alive had they not received donated organs.
The Sun condemns the behaviour of a prisoner serving eight-and-a-half years for fatally running down a police officer.
The paper says he used a phone smuggled into his cell at Ford Open prison in West Sussex to connect his Xbox to the internet and play computer games, using the nickname "Cop Killer".
It calls Gary Cody's actions "vile" and says he's now been moved to a tougher jail.
Meanwhile it throws its weight behind attempts to cut the number of peers.
"The House of Lords is a festering stain on British democracy," it says. "It's absurd that more than 800 ageing political cronies have such a large influence on UK law-making".
It calls on all parties to support halving the size of the upper house and ensuring its make-up reflects party strengths in the Commons.
Finally, according to the Guardian, the Olympic Stadium is being seriously considered as the venue for the 2019 cricket World Cup.
The England and Wales Cricket Board believe using the London Stadium, as it is now known, could help to introduce a new generation of fans to the sport, as well as servicing the huge interest in some matches.
Ticket prices could be lowered too as the stadium can host 60,000 people for cricket, double the number possible anywhere else in the UK.