

In the words of one minister, Theresa May "absolutely nailed the sorry", according to the Sun.
"Theresa Back From The Dead" is a headline in the paper, which suggests predictions of the prime minister's political demise are premature.
Several Conservative MPs tell the tabloid it would be wrong to "change horses" before the Brexit negotiations are concluded
Another of those present at her meeting with Tory backbenchers yesterday tells the Times the prime minister had been "genuine and contrite" about her flawed election campaign - giving a more human performance.
"There was none of the Maybot", a senior MP told the Guardian, adding that talk of a leadership challenge had been silenced - at least for now.
The Guardian says Mrs May bought herself time with "an upfront mea culpa" when she met the backbenchers to apologise for the loss of their majority in the Commons.
The Daily Express agrees Mrs May managed to settle Tory nerves.
But the Daily Mirror is unimpressed. Under a strap-line reading "Tory Government Chaos", the paper mocks up an image of Mrs May to make her look like Princess Leia from the Star Wars films.
The paper's headline reads: "May The Farce Be With You."
While questions about the Conservative leadership may have been temporarily put to bed, there's agreement that another battle is looming.
"Ruth to Scotch a Hard Brexit" runs a headline in the Sun, which reports that the Scottish Tory leader, Ruth Davidson, is urging colleagues to look again at their strategy for leaving the EU.
The Express says hardline Brexiteers in the cabinet "are digging in" for a fight, while the i newspaper talks of a flare-up in the Tory civil war on Europe.
Writing in the Daily Telegraph, Michael Gove - who played a key role in the Leave campaign - says it's vital the government achieves a deal with the EU that can command the "widest possible support".
The paper also claims senior cabinet ministers are having "secret talks" with Labour MPs to secure cross-party backing for a soft Brexit.
There's speculation about the price the DUP could exact for agreeing to prop up a Conservative minority government.
The Times predicts they will seek measures to isolate Sinn Fein.
It says a demand to ban all political donations from outside the UK could hit support for Sinn Fein from Irish-American groups.
But DUP sources tell the Guardian they want to avoid issues that could alienate nationalists in Northern Ireland - and sectarian matters, such as Orange parades, will be largely off the agenda.
Labour's stance on Europe doesn't evade scrutiny.
According to the Telegraph, the party's plans for Brexit "descended into chaos" when Jeremy Corbyn was directly contradicted by members of his shadow cabinet over his wish to leave the single market.
Quoting Brexit Secretary David Davis, the paper suggests Labour's position on Europe allowed it to appeal both to UKIP supporters and to Remain voters.
"Which is Labour's Brexit? Hard? Soft? Anyone Know?" asks the Sun.
"The party says all things to all men, hoping voters are too dim to notice".
There is widespread coverage of the hundreds of arrests made by Russian police at a protest called by the opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, in Moscow.
The Guardian says the demonstration came as Russia enters an election cycle, with a vote - expected to give President Vladimir Putin six more years - due next March.
The Times says the protests spread well beyond Moscow, with thousands also turning out in far-flung cities in Siberia.
The growth of opposition in areas normally seen as President Putin's heartland is surprising, the paper says, and potentially threatening to those in power.
Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning
There's news that some of the fiercest competitors from the world of newspapers have temporarily set rivalries aside.
The Guardian and the Telegraph publish a joint article, reflecting on threats to press freedom, ahead of community events to honour the murdered MP Jo Cox.
And publishing a joint editorial for the first time, the Sun and the Mirror urge their readers to celebrate "what we really do all have in common".
They say that after the turmoil of the past few weeks, this weekend's street parties and get-togethers are "just what Britain needs".
And finally.
"A Flying Shame", runs a headline in the Daily Mirror, which reports that three British airports - Gatwick, Manchester and Edinburgh - have been rated among the 10 worst in the world.
Researchers tell the Times that many UK airports are poorly designed, with large queues at check-in, delays at security, and long walks to the gates.