

The cancellation of plans for a statue of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher makes headlines in the day's papers.
The Daily Telegraph and the Daily Mail report that plans for a statue of Lady Thatcher in London's Parliament Square have been blocked.
Officials said they couldn't back the 10ft bronze artwork without the support of Lady Thatcher's family.
The Mail says it's also feared that the statue could be a target for vandals. Tory MP Jacob Rees Mogg objects to the decision.
"Blocking it for fear of vandals" - he tells the paper - is the "lily livered approach Lady Thatcher most disdained."
The call by the business group, the CBI, for Britain to remain in the single market until the final Brexit deal has been agreed dominates the front pages of the Telegraph and the Guardian.
The two papers describe it as an "escalation" of the business community's attempts to "soften Brexit".
The head of the Engineering Employers Federation, Terry Scuoler, tells the Guardian that leaving businesses guessing about the outcome of the negotiations risks causing serious economic damage.
In the Mail, Brexit supporter Gisela Stuart accuses the big business lobby of trying to keep the the UK in the EU by the back door.
In its editorial, the Financial Times urges Prime Minister Theresa May to align herself more closely with her chancellor. It defends the stance of business leaders: "They are not engaged in sabotage", it says, "what they want is greater certainty."
The Times and the Mail both report on what they describe as a "plot" to de-select a fifth of Labour MPs.
They say the grassroots group Momentum has published a list of 49 MPs, including Chuka Umunna and Chris Leslie, who they suggest should "join the Liberals".
The Times urges moderate Labour MPs to fight back, while the Mail asks "Will Mr Corbyn ever disown the hate mob?".
The Daily Mirror reports that Labour Party chairman Ian Lavery has moved to calm fears, saying "I don't see de-selection as the way forward."
While the Guardian cautions against over-interpreting every move in a local party as some kind of purge.
"Brexiteers declare war on the BBC," declares the i on its front page, as it reports the claim by International Trade Secretary Liam Fox that the broadcaster would rather see Britain fail than Brexit succeed.
The Mail asks: "isn't it time for the Corporation to rediscover impartiality".
The problem, suggests the Daily Express, is that "the institution is run by a clique of liberals... who are overwhelmingly pro-Remain".
The BBC tells the papers that it takes "impartiality incredibly seriously".