

YouTube's child protection mechanism is breaking down, according to some of the company's volunteer watchdogs.
There's a constant anxiety that those seeking to abuse or groom young children will use social media to reach them - and YouTube is aware of the problem. The video-sharing site has a special network of volunteers, called Trusted Flaggers, who help identify worrisome posts and comments on the network.
But now members of YouTube's Trusted Flagger programme have told BBC Trending that the company has a huge backlog of reports, some months old, and that the company responds to only a small fraction of complaints from the public about child endangerment and suspected child grooming.
One volunteer says that he made more than 9,000 reports in December 2016 - and that none have been processed by the company.
A small group of Trusted Flaggers also grew suspicious about effectiveness of YouTube's public reporting abuse page. Over a recent 60-day period, they used it to flag up hundreds of accounts which potentially violated the site's guidelines.
A controversial advertising campaign for a Kazakhstan travel company has created a buzz today, generating a lot of reaction across social media.
The short clip which aims to promote flights on a travel website has been shared on Facebook more than 71,000 times and viewed more than 31,000 times on YouTube in the past two days.
A video featuring Turkmenistan's president displaying his military prowess has been gaining traction on social media - but not for the reasons you might think.
The country's opposition website Khronika Turkmenistana edited a state TV video of President Kurbanguly Berdymukhamedov demonstrating his shooting skills, but instead of running the video they tweaked the beginning by adding a clip from Arnold Schwarzenegger's action film Commando.
A police officer in Louisiana has resigned after sparking online outrage with an inflammatory meme.
Wayne Welsh, an officer with the Estherwood police force, shared the image on his personal Facebook page on Sunday.
A firm that worked for Donald Trump and which once claimed ties to a pro-Brexit campaign group is now reportedly working for Kenya's incumbent president.
Cambridge Analytica's mission statement is simple. On its website, the firm says it "uses data to change audience behaviour." Most notably, the company was hired by Donald Trump's presidential campaign and has been given some credit for Trump's electoral success.
A photograph showing an empty bus in Norway has been gaining worldwide attention.
The picture which sparked debate was originally posted on a private Norwegian anti-immigration group's Facebook page, but has since been shared elsewhere.
In Afghan society it is the custom that women's names should not be uttered publicly.
Women are generally only referred to as the mother, daughter or sister of the eldest male in their family. Using the name of a woman is frowned upon and can even be considered an insult.
A sharp increase in the price of onions has caused consternation amongst social media users in Iran.
According to BBC Monitoring, onions used to cost between 1,000 and 1,500 tomans (30p; 39 cents). Now they are selling for around 4,400 tomans.
The resignation of Pakistan's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has been met with argument among Twitter users in the country.
His resignation followed a decision by the country's Supreme Court to disqualify him from office.
New portraits of MPs have been released as part of continuing improvements to the UK Parliament website, while former UKIP leader Nigel Farage has recommended Christopher Nolan's latest movie.
Predictably, people have been having fun with both.