

Theresa May's former chief of staff, Nick Timothy, has been speaking to the Daily Telegraph to explain where he thinks the general election campaign went wrong for the Conservatives.
In what the paper bills as his first interview since resigning - although he did write one magazine article a few days later - he says the Tories lost their majority because they abandoned Mrs May's promise of "change" in favour of a "continuity" message.
Mr Timothy suggests that other advisers chose the style of the campaign - with its close focus on the prime minister's initial popularity - but says he takes responsibility for what he did.
The Telegraph says Mr Timothy insisted he would not point the finger of blame but it says his answers leave no doubt of the tensions that existed between Downing Street staff and the election strategists who were brought in, including Sir Lynton Crosby.
"Mutiny at the National Trust" is the headline on the Daily Mail, as it takes up the story about a row involving volunteers at a Norfolk stately home.
It says dozens of unpaid guides have quit or refused to work at Felbrigg Hall after being told to wear gay pride badges as part of a campaign.
The Telegraph, which reported this on Friday, says the Trust is now facing an exodus of members, with scores cancelling or refusing to renew their membership.
The head of the organisation, Dame Helen Ghosh, has written to the Telegraph defending both the badges and a film about Robert Ketton-Cremer, who gifted them the hall, which critics say has outed him as gay.
But the Daily Express accuses her of being a "politically correct commissar" and accuses the trust of bullying
Janet Street-Porter, writing in the i newspaper, calls rainbow badges "crass", and says: "I'd like to think that were Mr Ketton-Cremer alive, he would feel his contribution to our rich cultural and social mix was worth more than a silly badge."
The Times says comments about Brexit by the Republic of Ireland's Prime Minister Leo Varadkar showed a "marked shift of tone" for Dublin.
It says he attacked Brexiteers in the UK government and urged Theresa May to rip up her plans for leaving the single market and customs union.
The Mail sees his remarks as a threat to veto British trade talks with the EU unless the issue of the Irish border is settled.
The Sun says Mr Varadkar appears to be in denial about Brexit, saying he should accept that the UK will leave the EU.
Its editorial urges him to stop trying to stall negotiations.
The Telegraph reports that tiny human brains are being grown in the laboratory and could, one day, be used to repair damage caused by Alzheimer's disease.
It says Aston University in Birmingham is using human skin cells, transformed into neurons, and then 3D-printed in clusters to resemble the structure of the brain - although they are just 2mm across.
Scientists compare it to science fiction but say the project could improve and prolong hundreds of thousands of lives.
Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning