

The Observer carries a plea to parents from the children's commissioner about the amount of time young people are spending on social media and the internet.
Anne Longfield says as web use reaches record highs among children, parents should be proactive in stopping them from bingeing on the internet "like junk food" during the school holidays.
She also condemns the new methods social media companies are using to draw them into spending more time "staring at tablets and smartphones".
The UK is prepared to pay up to £36bn to the EU to settle the so-called Brexit divorce bill, according to the Sunday Telegraph.
The paper says this is the first time such a precise figure has been proposed, and goes on to report that senior officials in Whitehall now believe the offer is the only way to break the deadlock in negotiations.
It says the UK will only agree to pay the bill if the EU negotiates the financial settlement as part of an agreement on future relations, including a trade deal.
In an editorial, the paper urges politicians to focus on what we are "bringing to the table" rather than endless "negativity and misplaced bravado".
The Sunday Times leads with an investigation which it says has revealed that British A-level students are being "discriminated" against by many of the UK's top universities.
The paper says it has uncovered evidence that institutions are recruiting what it describes as "more lucrative overseas applicants" who often have poorer qualifications.
Former education minister Lord Adonis tells the paper that the findings are "seriously alarming".
He accuses universities of "betraying their mission" to widen access to higher education.
The paper says British parents have a right to expect a level playing field and universities have a duty to provide one.
The Mail on Sunday warns of a prescriptions fraud epidemic as it reports that a million NHS patients have been fined for wrongly claiming free medicines.
It says that health services bosses clawed back £23m in the past year in fines and unpaid bills as a result of a major crackdown targeting fraud.
Most of the papers carry pictures on their front pages of Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt after he finished third in his last individual 100m race before retirement at the World Athletics Championships in London
"Bolt from the blue - Usain bows out with bronze," declares the Sunday Times.
"Final Insult," says the Mail on Sunday which focuses on the chequered past of the race winner. "Boos ring out as Bolt is beaten into third in his farewell race by twice-banned drugs cheat Gatlin."
Above a picture of Bolt giving a "V for victory sign", the Sunday Telegraph declares simply: "Goodbye from the greatest."
And who won't be eating all the pies?
Well, it could be us, according to the Sunday Mirror.
It reports that dozens of iconic British food names could be put at risk by a 'hard' Brexit.
The paper says favourites including Melton Mowbray pork pies, Cornish pasties, Cumberland sausages and Wensleydale cheese could be undercut by cheap foreign imitations.
The Mirror warns that leaving the EU without a deal would scrap the Protected Designation of Origins, which means products have to come from the areas they are named after.
Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning