Late Late Show: James Corden praises UK spirit after London attack

James Corden has praised the spirit of the UK after the terror attack in London Bridge at the weekend.
The presenter is hosting The Late Late Show from London for three nights this week.
He said he was glad to be showing off the "stoic British determination to let nothing or anybody stand in our way" in light of Saturday's attack.
"I'm so proud to be broadcasting here from my home town... this is not a country that feels afraid," he said.
London Bridge attack: What we know so far
The show's opening monologue saw Corden standing on the streets of London, launching the string of shows from the capital from outside Central Hall in Westminster.
One of his guests, Nicole Kidman, later added she "wanted to be here to support England and London right now".
Corden is pulling out all the stops for this week's shows - which are being broadcast on Sky 1 in the UK.
Guests include David Beckham, Emily Blunt, Tom Cruise and Ed Sheeran, who was seen taking part in Carpool Karaoke in the first London episode.
The singer was seen fitting more than 50 - fifty! - Maltesers in his mouth after Corden challenged him, and pulling out a guitar to sing One Direction's What Makes You Beautiful.
"I'm so sad when I think about all the times that I've had to open our show talking about such atrocities. Trying to find the right words to say is impossible because there are none.
"Some people might say it's a strange time to do a variety show in this city. I couldn't disagree more. A lot's going to happen here in the next few days.
"We're going to elect a new prime minister, and just behind that building there [gesturing] is the Houses of Parliament, a building that represents democracy, something that the people who carried out this attack hate.
'We're gonna bring the silliest, stupidest, most fun-packed shows we've ever made for you to celebrate London and Britain and everything it has to offer. And you know what the people who carried out that attack, they would hate that too.
"I'm so proud to be broadcasting here from my home town. I'm proud to show off its beauty, its diversity, and its stoic British determination to let nothing or anybody stand in our way. This is not a country that feels afraid."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.