like his "scientific" colleagues he developed institutional history as the most reliable basis for the study of any period. In addition to this he refrained from making particular moral judgements, because he believed that the historian should insist on the priority of the facts and let the facts alone "teach their appropriate lesson". [...] His greatest works were the History of the Inquisition in the Middle Ages (1888) and the History of the Inquistition in Spain (1906-7). In a number of auxiliary studies which appeared before, between, or after the two magna opera, Lea investigated such themes of ecclesiastical law as auricular confession, indulgences, sacerdotal celibacy, and the persecution of witchcraft. [...] Basically, Lea was not concerned with the cultural unity and uniqueness of the Middle Ages but with the spirit that stood behind the institutions of the Church and caused these institutions to become obstacles to the development of "human progress". "Human progress", to him, was liberty of conscience, tolerance and democracy. Like most of his educated fellow- Americans, Lea believed that the preservation of these ideals was the sacred task of his nation. [S.68] Among Lea's contemporaries there were several historians who also addressed themselves to the study of European Church History. Most of them wrote on the Reformation and on the history of particular Protestant movements. Although their writings were generally less comprehensive in scope and more specialized in the treatment of their subjects, [...] That this happened is convincingly shown in Henry Baird's volumes on the history of French Protestantism, in Samuel Macauley Jackson's biography of Zwingli and in Williston Walker's book on Calvin. 2 [FN] 2 Henry M. Baird, History of the Rise of the Huguenots of France (1879), Huguenots and Henry of Navarre (1886), Huguenots and the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes (1895) ; Samuel M. Jackson, Huldreich Zwingli (1900); Williston Walker, John Calvin, The Organizer of Reformed Protestantism , 1509-1564 (1906). 3 Cf. the works of Roland H. Bainton, Earl Morse Wilbur, Harold Bender, George H. Williams and many others. The significance of the present American contribution to Reformation research is easily recognized in such periodicals as Church History, The Mennonite Quarterly Review, and the German- American Archiv fur Reformationsgeschichte.