This interest was firmly based on the consciousness of common contemporary connexions and common destinies. It was therefore only natural that the New Historians desired to expand the thematic horizon : they called for more intensive study also of modern European history. The experience of World War I did much to fulfil this wish. [...] From 1917 to the crisis of the 1930s the emphasis was primarily on the history of external relations. Thereafter one can observe a growing interest also in domestic problems of European countries. [...] It confirmed their conviction that the study of diplomatic history was of particular importance also for the determination of America's role in the history of the world.1 [FN] 1 Ibid. pp. 263, 269 ff. [S. 72] It was in this field also that a great national controversy erupted: the conflict between the revisionist and anti-revisionist interpretations of the origins of the war and of American intervention. This conflict was observed with particular interest in Germany, and the most prominent exponent of revisionism, Harry Elmer Barnes, could for a time enjoy the admiring appreciation of a considerable German audience. [...] 1 Besides this great expansion of American interest in modern European history, the study of the Middle Ages and of the early modern period had by no means died out. On the contrary: American medievalism reached the high level of its quality which has remained traditional down to our day, [...] [FN] 1 Warren J. Cohen, The American Revisionists: The Lessons of Intervention in World War I, Chicago, 1967. Günter Moltmann, "Revisionist Historiography in the United States and its Importance for German-American Relations in the Weimar Period", Deutschland und ie USA 1918-1933 (Schriftenreihe des internationalen Schulbuch- instituts, Bd. 13, Braunschweig, 1968). 2 The visible symbol of this impressive development was the foundation, in 1925, of the "Mediaeval Academy of America". Since 1926 this organization of scholars published the journal Speculum. It was to be the counterpart of the Journal of Modern History which was founded three years later as the professional periodical for European history since the Middle Ages.