The United States, North about the Security Council's emergency meeting of the"value" of North Korea is 28 at midnight missile test was carried out and about, the United States of the United Nations Security Council emergency meeting"of what results as"not held, not to seek the idea showed. Nicky・Haley, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, such meeting is against the North, and the international community is serious respond that I do not seek to send a message that said. This firing experiment, the North Korean government is the United States the entire range and proven claims that. This for us is a high-altitude interceptor missile system"THAAD(third)"the firing of the experiment we conducted, bombers 2 aircraft to the Korean Peninsula situation. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe 31 AM, Donald Trump President and call a meeting with I went. Prime Minister Abe to North Korea and increase pressure for further action you need to take and in recognition of the match, said. The phone talks military action about them in Michael Lapidge, John Blair, Simon Keynes and Donald Scragg. Haley Ambassador in a statement,North Korea, and many of the Security Council resolution have been the subject of, and"violation of the punished one,"he said. "Additional Security Council resolution on North Korea to international pressure to stand strong, it is not worth. Rather, nothing worse than. The North Korean dictator for the international community is serious respond that I do not seek to send a message that they consider" on top of that, China for the North to suppress the urge. Haley Ambassador,"China is finally serious measures to take, whether decided no........ The discussion time is finished,"he said. North Korea is a 2 time Intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM)firing experiments conducted last 28 days, for the first time of the firing from the experiment 3 weeks after that. In contrast, the US military in Alaska and deployed to high-altitude interceptor missile system"THAAD(third)", the US Air Force in the Pacific on the aircraft from the left or the missile interceptor was successful and announced. North Korea missile attack during interception so that you can China's intense opposition to the U.S. Forces Korea on THAAD deployment is now proceeding. 30, the U.S. B1 bomber 2 aircraft of the South Korean military and Japan Air Self-Defense Force and the Korean Peninsula in the joint training was conducted. "Whine to the kids" this time the firing of the experiment received,Donald Trump the President of China to criticism. North Korea's trade in"billions of dollars"of profit, are increasing, despite North Korea's missile and suppress the development effort said. Trump is Twitter in China"very disappointed", said the DPRK for China to"do nothing"is not to forgive, and. On the other hand, former diplomat at the Chinese government Advisor Victor・Gao, Mr. Trump's comments, but first, the United States is"whine to children"to act like that. North and connected to the mainland border, and the most close economic relationship to China,North Korea's firing experiments criticized on each country for a calm response to the strong demand for. Trump and President XI Jinping this year,North Korea to discuss and,subsequently, the US official said both countries have"various alternatives"not to all...... But this time of ICBM firing experiments,"technologies of the significant progress"and that the North's challenging attitude is different. THAAD is? Interceptor works(the order is the one above compatible) THAAD is 1 of the tracks up to 8 of the gantry can be equipped with. 