TEPCO's ex-Chairman from former members of the management Board of 3 people, the nuclear disaster in innocence claims first trial at the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant accident about 30, the Tokyo District Court in the first trial is opened,業務上過失致死傷 of sin 強制起訴 for TEPCO, the former management of 3 people pleaded not guilty. 2011 years 3 month after the Great East Japan Earthquake nuclear accident, concerning the first criminal court. Charged,TEPCO's former Chairman Tsunehisa Katsumata defendant, former Vice President of 武黒 Ichiro defendant, former Vice President of Mutoh Rong defendant of 3 people. The indictment, according to 3 people at the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear power plant the tsunami struck after the accident to be foreseeable despite the safety measures, neglect,Futaba hospital (Okuma town)hospital patients from 44 people to evacuate in the process of death and being. Patients had the accident by the long-range, and long were forced to flee. The nuclear accident regarding the criminal trial, the defendant 3 people an apology, but"the accident is unforeseen"and pleaded not guilty. On the other hand, prosecutors of the specified lawyer,accident 3 years ago in 2008, TEPCO's internal nuclear power plant inundation height of tsunami assumed for the calculation is created,武黒 former Vice President and Muto is a former Vice President have been reported and noted. Furthermore, the breakwater of the specific measures planned but deferred and claimed. Guilty and up to 5 years of 禁錮刑 say passed may. Earthquake 1 year later published in the national diet of Japan Fukushima Nuclear Accident Investigation Committee report on the English version of the nuclear accident in Japan's"reflexive obedience, resistance, authority questioned and to for those"who cannot be"made in Japan"is a man-made and was pointing out. The earthquake and tsunami by about 1 million 8,500 people dead or missing, and large areas are uninhabitable and was. In Fukushima nuclear accident by the 16 million or more people displaced,even now, about 8 million people outside the Prefecture have evacuated to. 