Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo is the death of criticism on China rebound China's government criticized the guilty, and incarcerated during the Nobel Peace Prize winning writer and human rights activist Liu Xiaobo on December 13,liver cancer for China Liaoning Shenyang in the hospital died. She was 61 years old. Outside of the treatment was not recognized by the Chinese government against international criticism is growing, but the Chinese government is it has rebounded. Mr. Liu is China's democratic system migration appealed on the grounds that in 2009, the state administration of Subversion instigated the crime 11 years in prison of convicted. End-stage liver cancer suffering from last month, from Shenyang in the hospital and was receiving treatment. The Chinese Foreign Ministry on the 14th,the government for the first time as Mr. Liu's death to touch it,"Liu Xiaobo's handling of China's internal Affairs, and foreign or inappropriate remarks to not in a position"and commented. State・Xinhua news Agency on the same day convey. Hg refreshing press Secretary from the Chinese medical authorities, Mr. Liu in the treatment of everything added. Mr. Liu died 13 evening, the hospital of China Medical University attached first hospital was opened in the press conference,the chief physician of the area, Mr. Liu, Mr. The wife of Liu HSIA Mr. and surrounded by family"in peace"died and explained. To his wife's last words were"I was alive"yet. Shenyang city authorities a short statement, Mr. Liu treated for multiple organ failure, died in the announced. Attending physician Mr. Liu's death when the wife of Liu HSIA(web・application)Mr(56) to tell the words that were revealed. Liu Mr. breath taking when Liu HSIA Mr. and family to and from a restful look for. The Norwegian Nobel Committee,Mr. Liu's death the Chinese government has a"heavy responsibility"and comments. The Committee,Mr. Liu's death is"untimely"and noted, outside of the treatment was not recognized the Chinese government's attitude"very worrying,"and criticized. Mr. Liu's underwriting as a destination have been examined for the German group of multi・Gabriel, foreign Minister,transport can be a pity and comments. "China is now,and early cancer was found, and to ensure transparency and convincing answers quickly is responsible for"and the foreign Minister with. For the treatment from the prison released on parole, Shenyang admitted to the hospital Mr. Liu's on the 8th,Germany and the United States for a doctor to visit,for the palliative treatment of departure is possible as soon as possible""you need to do and the joint statement had announced. Mr. Liu's wife, the poet Liu HSIA Mr. house arrest dispositions received. Rice, English, German, French governments,the disposition of the game, Liu HSIA, Mr. Hope, from the departure to allow the Chinese government called on. Boris Johnson, Foreign Secretary, Minister in a statement,"Liu Xiaobo is abroad in their method of treatment the opportunity to choose to be given was, the Chinese authorities it repeatedly refused. This is a wrong judgment,to his wife for any limitations that solve the so called"China government in response urged. Similarly, Zaid Hussein, United Nations High Commissioner for human rights, even to the Chinese government,"Liu HSIA Mr. freedom of action to guarantee"as called for. "On the West side of the victim" the Chinese media in the West Mr. Liu's achievement was a voice filled,Donald Trump President Mr. Liu to"democracy and freedom in the pursuit of a life dedicated","courageous activists"and called me. On the other hand, China's domestic media is mostly silent, but the state・Xinhua news Agency and CCTV News is the English version of their website in a short statement posted,"State Power and the overthrow of the"convicted Liu Xiaobo has died and tell. The Chinese Communist Party newspaper"People's daily"International Edition,"ring-and-ball time", Liu said Western not"go astray victim", I wrote. "The Chinese side is Mr. Liu's treatment concentrate, as part of the Western powers is always a problem in the direction of political change, the treatment of"human rights"issue to try and fuss,"the newspaper continued. Social media, Mr. Liu Memorial writing has been removed to the state,several mourning comments deleted. "RIP(in peace)"expression, and remembrance means the candle emoticon is used in a comment that has been deleted. The Nobel Peace Prize award ceremony, an empty chair at the University of faculty from the indomitable human rights activist, was Mr. Liu,the Chinese government as criminals,repeatedly imprisoned. In 1989 China's Pro-democracy movement active in the United States from returning home. 6 months of the Tiananmen Square massacre in the army and negotiations such as the Central role,"counter-revolutionary crime"was imprisoned in. In 1991, after his release, the crackdown was imprisoned in the activists of the release and of the victims to restore their dignity for exercise. And for 3 years in concentration camps it is, and in 1996, the prison of the poet in Liu HSIA and Mr. married. After his release, and his writings, continues to Chinese democratization in search for. The Beijing Olympics opened in 2008, China's democratic system migration on the Internet called the"08 Charter", a plurality of intellectuals with the drafting. One-party domination and the abolition of multi-party democracy and the introduction called for. Many will agree, but the Chinese authorities, Mr. Liu to the state administration Subversion sedition arrested. In 2010 to 11 years in prison for a prison sentence confirmed, since Mr. Liu Liaoning prison had been. 