Large Hurricane"Matthew"in Haiti 300 people dead over the past 10 years in one of the largest hurricanes"Matthew"in the hit for Central America, Haiti government officials is 6, the number of fatalities exceeding 300 people was evident. The East neighbor of the Dominican Republic in 4 days 4 people died. "Matthew"is U.S. Eastern Time, 7 the early morning of today, Category 3 (Stage 5 in the 3rd strength)classified the forces that, in the U.S. State of Florida off the East coast of North New. The National Hurricane Center, according to the state of Florida in the 118 years since the largest hurricane in May. U.S. Eastern Time, 7 days 6 a.m. (Japan time on the same day at 7 p.m.), at the time of the"Matthew"is the East coast of Port Canaveral from about 40 km East of the coast at 14 km in the North to. In Florida and 22 million people without electricity State. President Obama is 5th, Florida and South Carolina to the state of emergency Declaration issued. In the United States is 200 million or more people displaced. In the U.S. Category 4 hurricane landfall of the 2004 Hurricane"Charlie"ever since. At that time, the southern province to 140 billion dollars worth of damage out. State of Florida Rick Scott Governor"excuse is not just. Retreat is not just"stressed. "The evacuation was not,in this storm, and how people have died, but what I want to. Seriously, not yourself or your own family that may participate,"and residents to evacuate is strongly urged. Areas of the state, the gas station car queue, the residents food and the home, reinforcing materials for buying into that. Some of the district schools and the University is closed and administrative offices also work to pause. Miami International Airport arrival flight is 6 am to about 9 percent was canceled. Disney World,Universal Studios,SeaWorld and other tourist facilities are also closed and was. In Haiti damage, the Elbe・the local Senator AFP, against more than 300 people died and spoke. Reuters, an anonymous government official as saying,339 people died and communicate. In Haiti South Russian version of the town is only about 50 deaths. Major Jeremy in the building of the 8% are collapsed. County Housing-3 units destroyed. Who died and most of the South of the town and fishing village residents in a rainstorm, fallen trees and blown objects,swollen rivers was sacrificed. 6 days at the time of the Dead is 100 people too, and have been published, but was submerged when relief will arrive, it will be found that the number of dead has increased. "Matthew"is the southwest Tiburon Peninsula hit,from 3 days to 4 days in wind speed of about 64 meters (mph 230 km)record. Property・Gore at the main bridge on the 4th decay for the Southwest, the majority of isolated. Multiple non-governmental organizations (NGOS), according to the telephone or electricity, without food or water to the bottom, the time for that. Local interview to the BBC's Tony Brown reporters,residents themselves can get rid of this, as military and police assistance is still not talking. The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs(OCHA), according to Haiti throughout the country, 35 million people in need of support. Rice of the Red Cross News・The Francis press Secretary phone recovery is a top priority and said that, for technical assistance and spoke. "The distribution schedule of relief supplies to the warehouse use the filters to see hotels in a specific area. For cooking utensils and sanitary tools you need. Especially the cholera outbreak to worry about, the water purification agent for the distribution of help". The US government most of the damage a greater area to carry water and food for the Army, helicopter 9 machine sent. Haiti is the world's poorest one of the countries in the UN Human Development Index in 188 countries 163 out. In 2010 an earthquake in the presidential office such as the collapse of the government since the features are insufficient, followed by disaster risk reduction measures are almost not available. Many of the residents in disaster-prone areas, built in fragile housing and forced to live in. In 2010, after the earthquake,the United Nations Relief troops arriving from cholera occurred, thousands of people died. Large-scale deforestation, by soil and fine, and the unstable ground on the building which was built in crumbly condition. 