Boko Haram release from Girl 21 people, reunite with their families in Africa Nigeria North-East-based extremist organization"Boko Haram"abducted your girls 276 people,freed 21 people 16 days in the capital, Abuja with the family was reunited. What kind of negotiation is made is not disclosed, but government officials is left to the girls toward the release of the negotiating and talking. On the 13th freed the girls,Abuja was opened in Christian rituals in the family and was reunited. The girl one is food, the absence of 40 days and spoke. "Lin was in, when the plane is near me when the bomb dropped, though, when we did not. 1 month and 10 days,all was well, did not die. Thank God"and the girl spoke. Another girl said,"this day will come and I never knew it,God help me,the slavery escape from it", he said. Abducted Schoolgirls many of the Christians were detained during Islam to forcibly convert them. Daughter reunited with a parent one of the IS"God and being grateful. When she met and did not think of,here and now. (SNiP) yet here children,God parents and take to it like"talk. 2014 years 4 month abducted girls not yet out of the 197 people still missing. The Nigerian government, the girls in our release and in exchange,prisoners were Boko Haram combatants we released as about the coverage is denied. But security officials muscle the BBC, against the commander of the 4 people he talked to. In addition, AP, the Nigerian government on behalf of the Swiss government for millions of dollars worth of a"large ransom"was paid and tell you. Nigeria's Mohammed information phase is 16 days,this time of 21 released who remain all free for the"first step"in the"in Phase 2 and discussions have done"and press to talk. "And of course, as a very delicate negotiation only. Negotiation of the entire confidentiality about some opponents to the promise, and the promise to defend" an abducted girl who was a part of, even just after the truck, jumped from the nearby bushes to hide, such as their own escape. A total of 219 people was taken away. The restraint of life in the death of the girl who was also being. In addition, Boko Haram combatants and the marriage is made more than 2 years for one girl in the home not want to the girl some and tell them. 