The G20 summit,19 countries in the Paris Agreement, the fulfillment of the promise of rice and a groove on from Germany・Hamburg will open in 20 major countries and regions summit(G20 summit)participated in the 19 countries on the 8th, and climate change initiatives for the Paris Agreement is"irreversible"and the fulfillment is promised, but the agreement to withdrawal for the US government and the groove is filled from. The G20 summit is the climate change communication in the representation of the last minute negotiations continued. Eventually 19 countries, the Paris Agreement, the fulfillment of commitments to uphold and statements about Donald Trump the President of the agreement withdrawal also mention that the content was settled. G20 joint communiqué,"the United States is the Paris Agreement, the withdrawal decision to be mindful"as stated. On the other hand, in the other 19 countries, a global temperature rise to suppress the governments measure promised by the agreement is"irreversible"and expressed. The summit's communique in addition, other countries are"fossil fuels more clean and efficient to get you can use(us) to other countries and work closely"with the government's intention stated. Trump the presidential race from within the illustrate coal industry of the resurrection promise,the Paris Agreement the United States of workers to the detriment of that criticism has been. The presidency of German Chancellor Angela Merkel is 8, the closing of the press conference, the Paris Agreement against his position even now very sorry I said that, the Trump is to ask for Agreement renegotiation about the other 19 countries oppose this"you think"he stressed. Merkel says"could not reach an agreement for the obvious, I think. However, we argue the differences, but rather stated"and reporters talked. The Prime Minister additionally, the US government has any Paris Agreement, return to it the・the British Prime Minister's opinion does not agree said. On the other hand of the Prime Minister on the same day, open a separate press conference, the United States is the Paris Agreement, return to the could think of was repeated. Emmanuel・ton Buddha, the President, the Trump presidential persuasion"I absolutely don't give up. It is my mission and, I think,"said. Macro-President this year 12 month 12 day in Paris for a climate change summit opened with the announcement. The Paris Agreement Implementation and the necessary funding on the theme of that. The G20 summit joint statement on climate change the US position is included in addition to an administration focus for the trade about US policy are also specified. Communication is protectionism, opposition to the country's traditional promise of a check for each country, their national market, to protect the right for the first time stressed. Trump 8 in the scheduled press conference was cancelled. The BBC's diplomatic charge James Robbins the reporter, by the G20 is a"G19 + 1"and the impression is more emphasized and pointed out. At this summit, the Trump administration's"America First"policy,other countries will respond to the measure I state the obvious,the conflict point with a lot of the meeting was the reporter talking about.