Russia and China, the chemical weapons used over Syria sanctions veto on the exercise of the UN Security Council in 28 days,the use of chemical weapons to the Syria sanctions draft resolution is voted on from those,Russia and China have veto power rejected. 2011 years in Syria civil war since the beginning, Russia has the Syrian government to advocate for a UN Security Council draft resolution vetoed this is the 7 second time. China Syria against Security Council resolution for the proposed 6 times,a veto power that. In 2013 Syria, Russia and the United States of the results of the negotiations,the possession of chemical weapons destruction agreement. The UN investigation of Syria's President Assad is a citizen for using chemical weapons,been accused. The President is the use of chemical weapons and deny that. But the United Nations and the organization for the Prohibition of chemical weapons (OPCW)in a research conducted by Syrian army in 2014 and 2015 to 3 degrees, the chemical weapons attack was carried out it was found. According to reports, the Syrian Air Force helicopter,the rebels seized the region to chlorine gas into the bombs dropped. Chlorine gas weapons to use in 1997 of the chemical weapons Convention(CWC)is prohibited. Also, the extremist organization of the so-called"Islamic State"(IS)also mustard gas was used with, the OPCW in the investigation was found. The UN sanctions draft resolution draft resolution the U.S. and Britain, of France, 3 countries in drafting. Syria's helicopter exports and the banning of chemical weapons use was involved in 11-man military commanders and officials, 10 bodies against the sanction and was content. The draft resolution in 9 countries in favor, while China, Russia and Bolivia 3 countries objected. Or Egypt, Kazakhstan, Ethiopia 3 countries abstained. Security Council resolution is passed, the 9 countries of favor,with 5 permanent members (USA, France, Russia, UK, China) has a veto power that you need. A veto exercised the background of Russian President Vladimir Putin,Syria sanctions"peace talks hinder,spoil"and,"was unreasonable,"he said. The Russian government is a lot of Syrian military officer training, weapons supply, including the Syrian government and a long one there. China is earlier,"our country has a long history of other countries problems is not to interfere with the policy taken,"he said. Experts believe China's Western Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region of Muslim part of the fight in Syria for taking part in the concerns have analyzed. Sanctions upheld for the country? The United States of Nicky・Haley Ambassador to the UN,"the Security Council, where member States have their own people to murder, the other member States an excuse and a sad day it was. The safety of the world than the regime of Bashar al-Assad's mate preference was. The world is definitely, the more dangerous the place was,"he said. UK Matthew・the loft Ambassador to the UN,"the use of chemical weapons against what action to take if the international community, international law, the blatant violation to stand up to that trust, or the dreaded attack of Syria from the people of trust undermined,"he said. Or France's Jean Marc・the Russian Foreign Minister,Russia"the people of Syria and humanitarian for the whole heavy responsibility that is owed,"he said. 