Henny Porten appeared in her first film (and her first acting role, having never performed in theater) in 1907. By 1910 Porten had gained popular recognition as the leading player for the Messter company; [...] Porten’s labor as actor and iconographic value as Germany’s first star contributed measurably to Messter-Film’s early success [...] Porten's status as Messter-Film’s star actor closely coupled her image with the firm’s newsreels and other war-related enterprises. A brightly colored poster inserted between the pages of the 5 July 1916 issue of Kinematograph vividly documents Porten’s central position at the intersection of war and cinema. [...] This poster offers Porten as a modest wartime ‘pin-up,’ notwithstanding the apparent chasteness of Porten’s likeness in this poster and in her image generally, and increasingly after she herself became a war widow in October 1916.16 Porten offered German movie-goers a cinematic spectacle which signified at once a properly restrained female sexuality and German national identity: ‘the mother land’. Porten’s iconographic power also sold the war quite directly. In September 1917, she acted in a short film entitled HANN, HEIN UND HENNY that Messter-Film produced to promote the Seventh War Bond Drive (Fig. 2). Porten appears on a film set, then in an elegantly appointed room, where she receives Hann and Hein, sailors on an U-Boot who have written the star for advice about how to raise war revenues. Porten relates to the sailors through gesture and with the aid of an animated sequence a dream she has had in which everyone joins in the cause and the war coffers are readily filled. [...] The film was highly popular and so effective that it was reissued in October 1918 for use in the Ninth War Bond Drive. Promotions in the trade press for its renewed use asserted that the short film itself would draw audiences.17 16 Copies of Der Kinematograph were reportedly distributed to interested readers through the field cinemas, so that this poster might well have been widely received and displayed at the front. There are reports that pictures of Asta Nielsen were also displayed as something of a fetish at the front. See E.M. Mungeast, Asta Nielsen, Stuttgart: Walter Haedeche Verlag, 1928, pp. 11 ff. 17 See, for example, ‘Kriegsanleihe-Filme I’, Kinematograph 561, 26 September 1917. The author reports that the film was ‘ein stuermischer Erfolg’ (an overwhelming success) among Berlin audiences. A copy of the film is available in the Bundesarchiv Berlin. For further reports on the impact of this short film, see Lichtbild-Bühne 38, 22 September 1917, p. 56, and Der Film, 29 September 1917. Trade press promotions of the film appear in Kinematograph 561, 16 September 1917, and 613, 2 October 1918.