[Seite 188] From the mid-19th century, technological progress and industrialization had brought about an enormous acceleration in the worldwide traffic of people and commodities. The evolving world market was by no means free of conflict. While vehemently competing for foreign markets, the wealthier nations tried to defend their domestic economies against the pressure of globalization by means of import bans or tariff regulations. In Imperial Germany, the anxieties about foreign competition concentrated primarily on the economic superiority of the USA. The tensions between economic processes of globalization and nationalization were often transferred to fields of cultural production. [...] Sausages in cans have been around about as long as moving pictures. They appeared on the market in 1896. The preservation of food in cans had wide-ranging consequences for international trade and the world economy. According to Siegfried Giedion, ‘the time of full mechanization is identical with the time of the tin can.’1 In Germany, the can industry emerged between 1870 and 1914. Cooling and freezing techniques developed around the same time. Preserved food was much better suited for transportation and export. The stock cube industry of ‘Liebig’s Fleischextract’ made the large herds of cattle in Argentina, Australia, and America accessible for the European market. By the turn of the century, the advent of industrially processed food had radically changed traditional eating habits.2 Soup extract produced by Maggi or Knorr found the approval particularly of women who increasingly went to work in factories and therefore could not spend as much time on cooking as formerly. [Seite 189] During the First World War, the demand for canned meat increased enormously. The army set up two factories in Spandau and Mainz which produced eight million meat cans per month, although this was still a very limited output compared with American production. Being fed on meat and movies from cans, people were well equipped for the experience of a war which reproduced the alienated mincemeat and constituted yet another secondary reality. [...] Thus, the world trade, the world film market, and the World War were all powerful agents of standardization, although each of these three had its own logic of mass consumption. 1 Siegfried Giedion, Mechanization Takes Command: A Contribution to Anonymous History, New York, London: Norton, 1969 (1948), p. 4. On the development of the meat processing industry see especially ‘Mechanization and Death: Meat’, pp. 209-256. 2 Hans J. Teuteberg and Günter Wigelmann, Der Wandel der Nahrungsgewohnheiten unter dem Einfluß der Industrialisierung, Göttingen: Vandenhoek und Rupprecht, 1972, especially ‘Der Anbruch des “Konservenzeitalters’” , pp. 78-85.