Nordisk Films Kompagni - founded in 1906 - was the leading Danish film production company before the First World War. Its economic success caused a boom in film companies in 1913. But even before 1914, the majority of these companies had collapsed. When the war was over, only three remained: Nordisk Films Kompagni, Danmark and Astra. Danmark was by now reduced to producing only non-fiction films. Astra, now Dansk Film Co., concentrated on star films with Olaf Fönss. In other words, the leading position of Nordisk was still unchallenged. Not until 1921, when Dansk Palladium was founded, did a worthy competitor arise. [...] In 1914 an optimistic atmosphere reigned at Nordisk, even if the dividend had fallen from sixty per cent in 1912 to ten per cent in 1914, but the company was still a profitable one. There were, however, problems. Already from 1913 a growing number of unsold films had been accumulating on the shelves of the factory as competition among the European film companies had grown acute. [...] Most of the films were unsaleable after the war. Their production costs had to be written off as a loss. [Seite 44] In the spring of 1915, confidence in Nordisk was still great, and there was consequently no difficulty in obtaining an extension of the capital from two million crowns to four million crowns. Part of this money was intended for the building of a new factory, as the old one had become too small to cope with the seemingly ever growing production. Another part of the money was spent on financing film production and a third part, on cooperative ventures with foreign companies. Nordisk had as early as 1914 bought 35 first-run cinemas in Germany, in order to control the distribution of their films there. The company changed almost completely from sale to hire. In 1915 it began working primarily with German companies, for instance with Oliver and Union, and also with a Swedish and some American companies, [...]. The idea was that these companies should cooperate in the distribution of their films all over Europe. This, however, soon proved fatal to the reputation of Nordisk among the allied countries.