[Seite 67] Thus, D.W. Griffith became the hero of the tale of editing’s evolution, CABIRIA was the landmark film for popularizing camera movement, and the Swedes were valued for taking the camera out into nature. [...] In many cases, the most celebrated stylistic innovations of the early cinema were designed to make objects, characters, gestures, and other aspects of the mise-en-scene more clearly visible. [...] Yet by the early teens, some films actually contain devices designed to make the action less visible. [...] [...] Yet by putting Ingeborg’s back to us, Sjöström displays an awareness that a de-emphasis on her facial expression could actually enhance our sense of her anguish and the poignancy of the moment. Similarly, the facade [Seite 68] of the poorhouse is less clearly visible than it would be if filmed straight-on. The perspective of the set as filmed, however, emphasizes the gateway as the backdrop of the action [...] The oblique, off-center view of the doorway also makes it a more startling moment when Ingeborg suddenly ducks inside. [...] Similar explorations of the expressive possibilities of the cinema were going on in many countries simultaneously during the 1910s. I think that relatively few of these explorations involved direct influence. Similar impulses to use depth or to move the camera or to shoot into mirrors seem to have surfaced independently within different national cinemas. It is particularly significant that this process was occurring largely during the First World War. Although in the key early years, especially 1913 and 1914, films were still circulating freely, by the middle of the war some markets were largely cut off. In particular, Scandinavia, Germany, and Russia had far less access to French and Italian films, which had dominated world markets before the war. By 1916, Hollywood films were becoming dominant in many parts of world, such as South America, Australasia, the United Kingdom, and some parts of Western Europe. As domestic industries developed, distinctive styles were able to flourish briefly. Recently, we have had a vivid demonstration of one such distinctive national style via the revelations of 1910s Russian films. [...] The war, coming just at a time when continuity guidelines were becoming well established, discouraged the sort of international uniformity that might otherwise have developed. Instead, the disruptions in the international circulation of films at this crucial time probably encouraged the astonishing variety that characterizes the 1910s cinema. [...] Given how few films of the silent era survive from most of the period’s small producing countries, it is difficult to make firm generalizations about stylistic influ- [Seite 69] ences. Still, enough examples do exist to suggest that many film-makers around the globe quickly absorbed the lessons of early continuity practice and used them to create clear narratives. [Seite 70] [...]The Russian retrospective at the Pordenone festival of 1989 showed us a cinema that was largely untouched by Hollywood influences.