In discussing war filming in this period, we should remember that the twenty years leading up to the First World War were an absolute cauldron of change in military technology, which revolutionised warfare. Rifles, machine-guns, smokeless powder, aeroplanes, searchlights, radio, flamethrowers, barbed-wire: virtually the whole panoply of modern battlefield equipment was coming into use in the years up to 1914. The technological change which most immediately affected war filming was the introduction of accurate, long-range artillery and rifles (especially the Mauser rifle). Before the rifle arrived, firearms were relatively inaccurate and short range, and the battlefield was rather compact, with soldiers bunched together, firing synchronised volleys in the general direction of the enemy.7 The Battle of Omdurman of 1898 was a turning point, the Dervish side using the old weapons, and the British using the new machine guns and long-range rifles to mow down thousands of the Dervishes as they came across the Sudanese plain. [...] As several cameramen later reflected, such a close range battle as that of Omdurman would have been perfect for the early film cameras, and at least one film camera was undoubtedly present at this battle, but failed to record the fighting itself. Something of a lost opportunity, as after this the nature of war was to change forever. In the Spanish-American and Boer Wars the British and American forces faced more equally equipped foes, armed with Mauser rifles, accurate at long range. So the battlefield became enormously extended, and a new tactic developed of individual soldiers firing from cover.8 Thus, filming of combat became almost impossible: the enemy were further away, spread out and hidden. Though one sees in the press of this period flamboyant notices for war films promising action galore, in practice because of the new weaponry, most early cameramen couldn’t get near enough to film any fighting, and so satisfied themselves with recording ‘the human side of the war’, showing troop movements, hospital scenes, and so on. As a result there was some disappointment in the war films when they were screened back home. 7 Incidentally, volley firing can be seen in James Williamson’s film about the Boxer Rebellion, ATTACK ON A CHINA MISSION (GB, 1900). 8 Despite the opposition of many commanders like General Buller, who disapproved of soldiers ‘bobbing up and down’ to fire.