[Seite 25] There were several adaptations of Russian literary classics, beginning with Lermontov and Pushkin and ending with Lev Tolstoy. In most cases only fragments of works were used as script material, the exception being the film of Dostoyevsky’s Crime and Punishment. The public favoured the contemporary popular novels such as the works of Breshko-Breshkowskij and the talented A. Verbitskaya, author of Keys to Happiness. Both the film and the book enjoyed extraordinary success. The rest of the subjects treated melodramatic stories, silly and often vulgar farces, sentimental dramas adapted from popular songs about gypsy romances, or psychological films with an unhappy ending. Against this background, gray and uninteresting as it is, one exception stands out, involving beautiful, innovative animation films or as in NOTSCH PERED ROSHDESTWOM (‘Christmas’ Eve’) a combination of animated and live action sequences. The author of these works was Wladyslaw Starewicz, the ‘Jack of All Trades’, a scriptwriter, director, set designer and above all master of tricks. His films were shown all over the world. [Seite 26] It would be unfair to name only Starewicz as a leading personality of Russian cinema before 1914. There was the experienced and talented director Yakov Protazanov and, starting in 1913, Evgenii Bauer, an excellent set designer and later film director. Skilled cameramen like Lewitzky and Kozlowsky were available, as were the Frenchman Louis Forestier and the Italian Gianni Vitriotti. Most of them would find recognition in the years to come, during the War and after. [...] A regular production of films had existed here since 1908 to supply a small internal market and to export to the enormous territory of the Russian Empire. In two cases Polish films were screened in Western Europe and in the USA. The producers of the first Polish fiction films often had links with the theatre. This is one reason why so many early Polish films were adaptations of well-known plays, novels and, in one case, an opera, ‘Halka’ by Moniuszko. Another reason involved the patriotism of these producers, in addition to being businessmen. Their intention was to make Polish films that were not just produced in Warsaw, but were Polish in spirit. [...] The beginning was signalled by a film version of a controversial novel of Zeromski, The Story of Sin, applauded by spectators but criticized by representatives of conservative opinion. In the beginning many production companies disappeared after one or two films.