Ying, diesel and gasoline vehicles new car sales in 2040 and later banned to in the UK diesel and gasoline vehicles new car sales in 2040 and later prohibited the prospect was. The British government is close to announce. The government also,local government diesel vehicles air pollution by corresponding to this, in order to support the 2 billion 5500 million pounds (about 370 billion) Fund announced the creation of a be. The atmosphere for the preservation of the budget of 30 billion pounds (about 4300 billion) from spending it. The government further from the court formulated that have been ordered for air purification strategy is scheduled to be announced. The strategy is,although the High Court specified a deadline at the end of the month looming. Air pollution measures seeking activities to those who have,this measures can be expected, but need to know more said. The government is a harmful pollutant nitrogen dioxide is the illegal level to deal with this the new plan to submit from the court had ordered. The court is of the conventional planning in the European Union (EU) stipulated by the pollution do not meet the provisions and environmentalists of Appeals ruled to uphold all...... Bus to improve the court against the government,air purification Strategy,Draft 5 October and the final strategy 7 on March 31 in the formulation that were asked. Regional measures as a bus or other transportation more pollution, less improvements, and road alignment changes or deceleration zone, such as the installation of road surface changes, the flow of cars for a smooth signal of the re-programming could include. Air pollution problems of the activists from the government's financial assistance received a"clean air area"setting,air is the most polluting vehicles to diesel vehicles is air pollution a terrible area to the entrance of the tolling and diesel scrappage program such as the plan to incorporate asking. But government diesel vehicles to drive people to be"punished"and receive and carefully. The government,the previous Labour government, the carbon emissions than gasoline-powered vehicles less and diesel vehicles promote for people, is a diesel and was looking to buy a car and explains. The British government's announcement at home and abroad, the petrol car and diesel car from the electric vehicle transition has accelerated signs that the US economy is performed. Air pollution in the UK every year 4 million early deaths associated with suspected and transportation but also of greenhouse gases that have caused. The government press Secretary,air quality, of poor UK residents of health as"the biggest environmental risk"and the administration, as far as possible in the short term drastic measures to be determined,"he said. Emissions-the press Secretary is,"the contamination spread from a diesel car to cope with our plans of ordinary workers unfairly punished but not common-sense measures, through often 1 of the book the road that is a"waste of space", the local councils cleansing support that,"he said. Environmental issues dealing with law firms client service, but this time the measures are welcome, but further to know more about and said. James Thornton chief Executive officer(CEO)is,"2040 onwards, gasoline and diesel passenger car and van sales ban and that people and vehicles move toward a clear policy to welcome and at the same time, the local government to provide funds to the movement, would welcome,"he said. "However, illegal levels of air pollution to the government as soon as possible and reduce the need and the law is set forth. Therefore, the plan about to be announced any measures, it focuses on not" <commentary>Roger hard round BBC Environment Correspondent The government's plan,scrapped the program is incorporated not. Also, the air pollution that vehicles that enter the urban area during the billing by local government ordered to be and not even. Air purification for mandatory Billing area, the government that professionals in the air pollution to eliminate the best way so that. These billing areas of policy not included in the decision, the comprehensive air purification strategies to 7 by the end of creation that the court order the government to breach in shape. The government,the perfection of low comprehensive strategy to hasty to make that more pollution is the most terrible place to deal with the program have claimed. From air purification to tackle activists from this problem in 4 months lost as the government or even a court order does not follow, that the reproach would be. This time filing a lawsuit,the client service is earlier, the Clean Air people breathe to ensure that the government as a legal duty or not, and again brought to justice and to consider and had warned. 