【US election campaign 2016】Trump "Mussolini"account to retweet US President from the Republican Party from the candidacy as businessman Donald Trump, the World War 2 when Italy's fascist regime led by Mussolini was an account that retweets for Trump's decision to question up-and-coming. Trump 28, the World War, when Mussolini used for the title"level・Doo Choi (leader)"to her Twitter account,"the sheep as 100 years, than as a lion 1 Born to be good"and retweet your tweets. Us NBC television interview in point of this and asked Trump,"Funny Words and ties them"that is the purpose was said. "Mussolini is Mussolini still. So like I'm not","with interest from behind?" Said. Young people in the popular website"Gawker(Gawker)"is Twitter the"Mussolini of the work or the speech from the words of the posting to a bot(automatically tweet the program)made",Trump is a tool to try and reveal that. The usual candidates if this came as a serious blow to one's words and deeds, Trump especially if the impact without the Republican frontrunner as election runner new. This"gaffe"in the same way, the election coverage to our reporter pointed out that. On the 26th of New Jersey Chris Christie Governor Trump expressed support. Trump election campaigns that decorate many size and became one of the. Governor Christie this month,the presidential race to withdraw from representation, etc. The election campaign of financial executives had served as Hewlett・Packard Chief Executive Officer(CEO),Meg Whitman, Mr. the 28th, and Mr. endorsement"startle most political opportunism"and said. Whitman says,"is the United States is a dangerous path to fall into it. Christie also know that,in public many times saying that,"he said. Trump is 28 days, the white supremacist organizations of England(KKK)executives of David Duke from Mr. support that we have received the U.S. CNN reporters from the question,"David Duke does not know anything about,"he replied. But then Twitter in the past,"at a press conference David Duke's support? So, it is denied and stated that"the video was. From video, the Duke says that somebody is aware of it can be seen that the. NBC, such as according to the poll, more than 10 provinces in the Republic・Democratic, each preliminary select to schedule 3 on 1 day of"Super Tuesday"is,Trump is leading the state of Georgia and Tennessee in the top spot as well. On the other hand, in Texas, the state elected Senator, Ted Cruz, Mr. dominant. The Democratic Party is former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is in the above 3 States, and even rivals of Bernie Sanders Senator(Vermont elected)for the dominant to maintain. Trump of"Twitter Rules" 1. To be bad manners whether the problem isn't childishly say, the Trump of invective, and politicians are not characterized as part of the proponents is willing to do. The New York Times,Trump is mouthing to People,Places, Things to the list, but I have 199 out there. 2. Automatic spelling correction leave to write a mistake like that, the tweet of the momentum can disturb you. 3. White supremacist woman Trump the last month,"WhiteGenocide TM(white genocide・trademark)"and the name of the account from the point. From this account's tweets on racism and anti-Semitism by. Point is Jeb Bush a former Florida Governor, from what the first rule is also true. Besides Trump, White Supremacist and related accounts to retweet that. 4. Consistency is like the first rule points out, however, Trump is an offensive word to avoid is not. However, public discussion in the others use vulgar words to get angry. The following tweet,Fox former Mexican President, the Trump construction to that Mexican border wall said about time too. 