Japan and the EU,the EPA agreement in the outline agreement number for the item on the elimination of tariffs in Japan and the European Union (EU)on October 6,in Brussels summit, open Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) on a General framework agreed. Under the agreement,the world's largest economy-the largest in Japan and the EU are among the many items to tariff elimination. However, the specific agreement about the content,some from clear and the implementation agreement until the to,and time-consuming prospect. Agreement for the consultations has been the focus of Japanese car and European agricultural products was. Germany・Hamburg a 7,8 day open to 20 major countries and regions summit(the summit)just before the 6 September,Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Jean Claude Yuen case in the European Commission in Brussels held a meeting,the outline agreement is also. This year 1 month in the field of the US President,US-Japan in the Asia Pacific region including 12 countries, but years of negotiations have agreed on the TRANS-Pacific Partnership (TPP) to withdrawal as. TV set rival Donald De access to the President of the European Council (EU President), the outline agreement of the World Trade strongly supports the EU's posture as representing the official said. "We are done for. We are the EU and Japan and between the political and trade talks with you....... The EU is the World involvement to deepen that". Toe box the President in addition, the EU free trade zone to promote you can do,some level set(of the UK leaving the EU)supporters say about this agreement refuted that and said. "Isolationism and the division of the times again and I say, it is different and we have shown". True access to the President or the trade will bring mutual benefit only if we agreed this is not the purpose of the said,"our society share values, or liberal democracy, human rights, rule of law,"the agreement reflects and stressed. Population 1 million 2500 million and the remainder of Japan is the World 3rd largest economy in Europe and 7th largest export destination. In Europe, the most important item one of the dairy products. In Japan in recent years,consumption of dairy products is steadily increasing. European dairy farmers is a country of reduced demand and increased competition has been plagued by. Dairy industry, production costs are outstripping income and claim. Agreement the formal signing, even after the overseas conflict with the Prepare that a grace period for elimination of tariffs up to 15 years items also. <Explanation>data account・glamour-critical business reporter, BBC News the EU and Japan are the two transactions at once for. Trade agreements, it added to the"strategic partnership"only. Trade agreement is a major free trade zone is formed, another one is climate change, as well as in the field of both parties to cooperate. Both"Framework"Agreement, and some details about the future of the agreement is to wait for the future obstacles they might be facing. However, one of the world's largest economy with countries and regions agreed by the world sends the message that what is wrong is not. 2012 began in the EU and Japan, the negotiations hit a snag was. But Trump for President elected, and the US inward into the EU and Japan in the back of the press,the opinions conflict get in over your. In both cases, new economic opportunity and / or an agreement with, each of the votes shown in The believes. The EU and Japan is also on the international community and the message she hopes to introduce. Democracy means that the advanced economies of Japan and the EU, freedom and free trade,the rule of law based on the world strongly support such a world, shaping the role the United States plays if none of us can. 