"Panda abuse"video in China spread,controversial controversial Chinese city of Chengdu, the famous Panda research facility, a giant Panda baby 2 heads are abused by the video for in China the fierce anger of the up-and-coming. Spread it in the video, officials baby"trailed by the brandishing"it looks as if. Watch the video for Chinese Internet users, the cruelty to animals that we have criticized. However Panda zookeeper for object・storage pens are,the baby Panda is violent and had an excuse for. Group is China's state-run Xinhua news Agency for the bait, and when bitten, but there is appear on the video and explained. "The baby Panda is in my hands I chewed it. Teeth the hands of the meat bites, the blood came out"and talking, now also in the hands scars remain and the addition. "You bite this, and push for" Open is also this week, this video is online on the spread,I misunderstood and felt and talked. The video this month was recorded. "The online community is what we pandas do not value and insist. Even the creatures of love that is why we are here and choosing to work with them."and off to the local media spoke to. "I Panda"throw"your video is,the natural reaction would clearly want to convey" group of colleagues in the local media for the video has spread since the group is from the facility"criticized the guidance received"and spoke. The giant Panda is China's symbol, is thought to have the government hand in thick protected. Chengdu City Public Panda facility Panda species protection professional. And Panda is now an endangered species is gone. "The Panda is cute just the woods to get to the" Chengdu Research Base of giant Panda breeding, this time of the"inappropriate"events to respond to, for example Panda scratch or bite or even Panda"and"treat the staff, and ordered Xinhua news Agency to tell. Panda expert Wu・the Mr. Xinhua news Agency for the video"first look at the reaction of officials is excessive I thought. Panda going to hurt but I could,"he said. "Guys, Panda keepers and a figure as it is. The giant Panda is cute and looks very, very strong, but the Woods will from" but protects Panda enthusiastically love in China, the problem was the keepers of the Panda's handling is controversial. The Chinese Twitter"Sina Weibo(Sina Weibo)"a lot of people,baby Panda abuse was a group of retirement looking for. The capital of China,Beijing resident of Jay would be,"he says, such as" Let's go, you cat obsessed moron " - Ciel Phantomhive. Panda is still a baby"and wrote. "Defenseless Panda wielding, and seeing as belly stood. Safety is such a concern, gloves for protection why not wear some" other netizens are these"documented animal cruelty"and called for this situation to anger mouth. Weibo users of this public facility and also of questioning. "Chengdu facility in China Country The Beast was established to protect, and no one wanted to. In the past great results for Panda baby pictures of a lot of the Chinese a happy feeling to it"and wrote. "In this event, the facility's operation and purpose for my views certainly changed" 