The Emperor abdicated to the special bill, approved by the government of Japan on the 19th,the Emperor of his abdication to allow the special bill, adopted by Cabinet decision. The government is on the same day also, a bill to............. one copy The ruling party and several opposition parties in favor, and the Parliament be established at the prospect. Yoshihide Suga the Chief Cabinet Secretary on the 19th Cabinet meeting after the press conference,"the quick passage of the bill to the term you want,"he said. Bill, the abdication of reason as the National"Emperor of the feelings to understand,and have empathy"with the state. The decree for the enforcement of the law on the day the Emperor abdicated,the crown Prince immediately ascended the throne, stated that that. The government in 2018, and 12 during the month of the abdication and enthronement ceremonies of the do in the direction of consider that. His Majesty The Emperor's abdication is determined,in 1817 the 119 instead of The 光格天皇 is 譲位 since of that. The abdication of reason as the National"Emperor of the feelings to understand,and have empathy"with the state. Abdicated after the title of"Emperor"and the's. The government is on the same day a bill to............. one copy The ruling party and DPP, such as multiple opposition parties that favor a direction in the current Diet session is to be established Outlook. 83-year-old to become the current Emperor is the last 8 months,"already 80, beyond happy to be healthy, we will proceed to the body of wane when considering this, like,every have symbol, and he plays the harder of the draft as well.", said the abdication wish to explain the reasons for. Royalty is a constitutional,political statements are prohibited, for the abdication and statements was not possible. Japanese women in the Imperial family the Emperor can not be for the Crown Prince's daughter Aiko is enthroned in you. The Emperor is long in the men's grandson was in 2006 女性天皇 about the possibility of the discussion began, but soon 秋篠宮 Mr. and Mrs. on currently third in line to the throne is born, for the discussion have gone by. In Japan on the 16th 秋篠宮 the couple's eldest daughter,Wednesday night's engagement was revealed for the female royalty of the role was noted. Japanese 皇室典範, the average person married women in the Imperial family from the Imperial estate to leave to go to. 