Alone in the choir boys to abuse, 60 years at least 547 people=report southern Germany Regensburg in the Catholic Church Boys Choir in about 60 years at least 547 boys are abused,some abuse there was,on the 18th published a new report revealed by. The report,from 1945 to the early 90's from the 49 people of the Church officials to the abuse involved and to have. Statute of limitations for charges from the people who will be prosecuted is unlikely to. The victim is at the time of the abuse,"the prison, hell, concentration camps"was like talking with. Report for the human・Weber according to the lawyer, the abuse is the Regensburg Cathedral boy choir included high school students was done in. Of abuse involving the suspected persons before Pope Benedict 16 of the world brother, the choir's conductor was Georg・Ratzinger he is included. The current 93-year-old Ratzinger he was about Weber, Mr.,his abuse didn't know about, the abusive behavior from"look away, to stop did not enter with criticism it would not,"he said. From 1964 to 94 in the choir who led Ratzinger said that the facts of the abuse and did not know, and his job title while the"buzz on the never was"by the Dutch. Track my tour guide said in the past the boys slap you and acknowledged, the"bruise like"were not argued. Regensburg Cathedral Boy Choir is this report about officially did not comment. "The silence culture" on the 18th issued a report Weber said, 60 years 500 cases of physical abuse, 67 cases of sexual abuse there was a said. He is part of the original choir members can not be contacted, and the actual damage number is 700 on on May be pointed out. Furthermore, Weber said, the abuse involved and that 49 people of silence"culture"was under said. 49 people out of 9 people sexual abuse was involved with. The Church is the victim, us against the 5000 ~ 2 million euros (about 65 million to 260 million yen) compensation paid and proposed. About 1000 years of history in the choir of the sexual abuse alleged in 2010 for the first time emerged. Last year when the report is 231 who is the victim and certified. The Catholic Church in recent years,around the world in many of the abuse allegations has been pointed out by. In the 1990s in Ireland abuse has widely been found from around 2000 to more than 10 countries in the abuse allegations emerged. The United Nations,the priest from the child sexual abuse of the subject to tolerate the policy of the Catholic Church has"systematically"adopted as the accused. 