In the Philippines,the anti-drug war to pause the Philippines to the police 30 days,last 6 months of the Rodrigo de system and as President since continued, the debate had called"the anti-drug war"to suspend the announced. Some of the"corruption"cops from"wiped out"of the measures...... great The Philippine National Police Ronald・de・Los Secretary, narcotics offenses Investigation Department to disband said. By the police narcotics investigators, a Korean man who is the national chief of police in the killing had been found...... great The men abducted and killed on suspicion of narcotics investigators from that. Drug eradication efforts since the beginning of the 7000 or more people have been killed. Many of the dead and doom system and the President's hard-line stance against human rights organizations and Western countries from a strong condemnation of the voice have come up with. On the other hand,from the public approval rating is at a high level remains. De・Los Secretary, the de system and the President"from the first organization to purify", he said. The Secretary is the"bad COP just to wipe out. (SNiP)after that, the war on drugs to resume it,"he said. De system and the President, narcotics offenses eradication of their policies at the core of their being. The University President initially, the drug eradication deadline of the last 12 months, but as of this year, after 3 months extended to all...... However, the de system and the President on the 29th press conference, a deadline term last day to extend the idea, showing a"3 month period are disabled,"he said. The same presidential term of office by 2022. De system and the President, the drug problem of deep-rooted to look so sweet and told. The President criticism in the most well-known person,Leila de Lima, Senator, the President and the National Police Commissioner is"murder to stop such a determined instruction under to be,"he said. De Lima deputies, narcotics offenses investigation of the Department to dismantle this,"the narcotics investigators themselves(omission) the so-called anti-drug war under the pretext of illegal activity was involved and recognized,"as noted. 