Travel food poisoning disguised as money demands, the British government measures to ride out the British government, the traveller is food poisoning by and false claims by looking for ways to to. Travel industry executives from Spanish hotel companies,false insurance claims increased markedly inferior. A large amount of payment as a result of British travellers to buy travel packages are expensive, and some of the resort facilities from the Brits banned or be warned. Government travel agent for such a filing a lawsuit if the reward of reduce and spoke. "The Englishman's belly is a delicate" David・a-Rede events over Senegal,the claims court against the Agency pay court costs and limit said. The act phase is the"destination disease was false claims to to to those who of our messages are clear. You act not be held responsible for any direct or indirect loss or damage, and unacceptable,and that"spoke with. Boris Johnson, the Foreign Minister of this problem, the Britons of the digestive system is"the world's most delicate", said the remark was. Travel Industry Association of British travel industry Association ABTA, the government's move"very welcome"as that. British travellers fraudulent claims if convicted,the longest 3 years of 禁錮刑 may be, the details over Senegal have pointed out. Further,the travel industry according to a rough estimate,the road condition was worse and a claim number in 2013 compared 6 times, and in other countries is not seen momentum growing at that. The government of the legal loopholes closed so that now, to travel abroad for the legal costs the upper limit is not provided. The list details who is false, not is, a compensation claim can be. "Illegal profits" ABTA's mark・the user has ultimate responsibility,"of these claims, especially the hotel managers and millions of pounds of burden to Spain, mainly abroad, of the British travellers of reputation as that,"he said. "False claims by illegal profits"to companies on the Not initiatives welcome one, and he is, claims companies and solicitors between enhancing the transparency of and asked. The leading German travel Agency TUI of Nick download UK branch and the British travel Agency Thomas Cook UK's Chris Motta size Head President with 6 months, the problem continues, the costs of the package travel British for sale may not be warned. "Hoteliers out of business relegated to May. Hotel side,their hotel is to the Brits to come to discourage,"says Motta cheese head said. 6 months in Spain in Majorca,staying at a hotel for food poisoning as a false claim to be tourists so much as the British people are 1 person,being arrested. British travellers from the claims of a surge in the hotel・chain and investigating, and discovered. <Explanation>"in Europe laughing to" Joe Lynam business correspondent for the UK there is a travel Agency management, insurance claim the issue of expansion, British travellers in Europe in the laughter of the risk and noted that there. Why not from the UK, travelers from the same hotel to the same restaurant to dine at many of France, Germany, Denmark, etc from travelers,British travellers are so often sick but not from you. Hotels and restaurants have racks of such claim objection, if the amount is relatively modest, despite the court costs would be expensive and far. Therefore, in most of the hotels and the insurance company just paid him. It is after all the other people who pay insurance are gainers can. False claims to crack down on the government's motion is, in theory, everyone some cost reduction may lead to. 