Trump,the White House in the atmosphere is the"best" in the 2016 US election campaign at the top of the camp and Russia and for alleged that there is an increasing interest from Donald Trump to the President on 12 November, Reuters interviewed for the White House, the atmosphere is"the best,"he said. In addition, their administration is"wonderfully functional"and also stressed. Trump and the Russian government's relationship to the President's eldest son is 11 days,"Russia and its government is a presidential election Trump to cheer the part of Russia as"an attorney who is Hillary Clinton to the adverse information and the offer, I gladly accepted and obvious multiple emails,their content. Featured in the Washington Post,Donald Trump Jr., Mr. email tweet the White House are in chaos state to tell you. According to the newspaper,Trump aide"category level 5 hurricane"and called for you. The US Congress and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Russian government is Trump to win support for the allegations and examine it. Trump and the Russian government repeatedly,this alleged to have denied. Reuters in an interview Trump for President, a series of alleged"Democrats up for you"and called. The President can also,vote on the intervention of"Russia I think,most countries and people think,"he said,"Really, this is who also not know"the answer. On the other hand,the US government, and multiple information institutions and some government executives, the Russian intervention was, and assertively as. Trump, the Russian government and that is Natalia・Bethel ever a lawyer and my eldest is Year 6 on May 9 met with this, a few days ago you didn't know that Reuters spoke to. Hillary Clinton unfavorable information with that received a brokerage, the eldest is a lawyer and visitation according to the President"a lot of people, many political professionals, anyone that says"and defended. Trump, during the election period is"various people"meet the"severe"looking back, that on the one hand, Trump Jr. says the actions of the unfortunately thing is found. "The Democratic Party of the fake politicians of the state the past few days had seen(SNiP)most of it is in the moment of your meeting according to one" Mr Putin is the"most fit" Trump for President is a U.S. conservative religious channels for their of Russia Vladimir Putin and"my fit,"he said. On the 12th broadcast of the interview is answered. Christian・character・network(CBN)interview for Trump, the main 20 countries and regions summit(G20 summit) Was opened in Hamburg, Germany on the 7th,Mr Putin and 初会 stories and questions about been,"no, the two do not go well and I had who it was. We are with you, my fit and think,"he replied. "This is a very powerful nuclear powers, the direction so. Some kind of a relationship does not make sense to not" Trump Syria in southwest ceasefire agreement is realized, the Putin administration in cooperation with the obtained results as an example. US President in addition, Putin said Hillary Clinton's entering the White House who wished for is one sure that said,"Hillary to have won, the country's army is battered and one from the"and its rationale explained. "Energy generation is more expensive for sure. Putin I so hated. So tell me. This is my wish by saying," the eldest son"innocence" Trump Jr. says last year 6 on May 9, Russian lawyer Natalia・best cell ever Mr. met with me, the Russian government and colluding with the intention to be met with according to this evidence,Federal law violations and for criticism, there is no objection there. The eldest is 11 days in the mail but after playing the President about this in short in a statement, the eldest son is"excellent man"and support the information disclosure is to ensure transparency was applauded for. Or Twitter, their son is"open and transparent is innocent"and insisted. Rice Fox News show・to the Community Moderator of this meeting about the father spoke from asked Trump Jr. says,"no. Because there was nothing. Should speak the content was nothing,"he replied. On the other hand, looking back another response should have been admitted. The Russian presidency of Dmitry・paste the press Secretary, is Bethel ever a lawyer about the Russian government know nothing and have expressed. Also, the ever lawyer also, their is the Russian government, and regardless,Clinton unfavorable information that I had not said that. 