New Year's Eve assault・theft German Cologne women protest in Western Germany in Cologne's young people's collective sexual assault and theft and the incident has received 5 November, women around a hundred people at the protest demo was conducted. Germany people shocked about this incident Merkel the German Chancellor is"disgusting that such a RAID"and expressed outrage, and the perpetrators caught to do everything you need and stressed. Witnesses and the police, the incident that caused the young Arab from North Africa-born seemed and have testified. In Germany last year, a record number of influx of immigrants and refugees accepted for fierce debate. Many of the immigrants the Syrian Civil War fleeing people. Of Cologne, Henriette・game the mayor is the culprit about a speedy conclusion to jump all in and complained. At this time the arrests are not out. "One-dimensional" Cologne Central Station in 12 month 31 day and night-life incident, a women police from at least the 90 and living room have been put forward. At least 1 female who is a rape victim and that, as a volunteer of the women cops, including many women body touched and sued. In Northern Germany, Hamburg and Stuttgart as well as of the incident, the Cologne than the damage was small. 5 day and night of protests in mostly women up to 300 people participated. Participants in the"Don't have,Where Are you? Not going to say! Worry!" And written paper to raise the children. Central Station is 5 days, the police men called Stop,duties questions to be seen for. However, the Cologne police of the film・The Albers, the chief is big on the incidents related to the arrests are not yet said. 同署 length,"the suspect has not yet been the culprit still does not know", and"most Arab from North Africa-born 18-year-old to 35-year-old young men looked,at the scene the cops are saying. I know this only,"he said. 同署 long the police response to the criticism, countered"some dimensions of the crime"said. Heiko Maas, Germany over Senegal,assaults to anti-refugee sentiment that a tool should not, he said. Common - "the criminal law is a crime, to prove it is important,also, all people under the law equality"and"where you are from is not a problem. What is important, and we can prove it,"he said. Merkel is 5 days, the local mayor and the telephone in response to the incident and talks about you. Merkel says,"place of birth or the identity of the individual, regardless of as soon as possible culprit found all to be punished, for"do everything is not so good,he said. Merkel police officials, after talking with the"North African origin seem to group the refugees associated with that is totally not appropriate,"he said. The incident at the scene and the man to one of the stations, outside of the partner and 15-year-old daughter populations surrounded by Stuff,help out and did not talk. Men are"guys daughter or my partner's chest and grabbed between the legs close by,"he said. The police submitted to the occasions, the majority of was robbery. Cologne travel was among British women is the BBC's coverage, whereas German and English do not speak the population from the fireworks and hurled it said. Women,"we hugged and kiss tried. Man one of my friends bag and stole,"said. A woman from"another man is their own"personal"take a taxi as well. Also,are risking their lives to remember a scary experience a few times, but this is the first time,"he said. 