The most exercise not the country...... Activity divide the point James Gallagher health and science correspondent,BBC News the US is actually just how much activity to see. Stanford University research team,from your smartphone"on a planetary scale"the amount of data collected,by country and region, the average number of steps to go through. The research team, a total of 6800 million days of minute data analysis. As a result, global 1 day average number of steps 4961 walk and concluded. 1 day the average number of steps were the most 6880 walk in Hong Kong,but this trend is less 3513 Walk of Indonesia was. Findings from the obesity measures used interesting details also raised. Most of the smartphone accelerometer is a built-in pedometer, and also plays a key role. The research team is to conduct recording app"ARGUS"use the 70 million or more anonymous data were examined. Participated in the study, Scott Delp (Professor of bioengineering),"the human activity concerning the study of more than 1000 times the size of the well"and description. "Health data in the past a great survey is conducted, our survey of the subject countries number of people a lot of people, the activities and continuously tracking". "The unprecedented size in scientific surveys,a new door will be opened"with the Professor speaks. Country walking is the activity disparities and sex differences in Science magazine"Nature"published in this research and the authors highlight a person's health to improve important findings were obtained and noted. For example, the country・regional average of the number of steps that is,the degree of obesity it is not as critical as it seems. A key element is the"activity gap", the economic disparities are wealthy and low-income difference, meaning that the"activity gap"is the most the body's ability High people and,most motionless people to mean the difference between. The"activity gap"the greater the obesity, the people who are in a state of percentage increases. Participated in the study Tim online source says,"For example in Sweden, the activities of many people and fewer people of disparity with the least one of the countries, the obesity, the proportion of those who have the least and one of the countries was also noted that"to. The United States and Mexico is the same as the average number of steps was, but the US is the"activity gap"is large, and the rates of obesity were also higher. Researchers,men and women of the behavioral differences in activity disparities significantly affect the to know,surprised. Like Japan,the degree of obesity and the activity gap are also low in the country, the men and women of the amount of activity is almost the same. But the United States and Saudi Arabia as the activities of inequality in countries with a high female activity was less amount of. Participated in the study a・level based approach Associate Professor(Computer Science)is,"activity gap is maximum and the activities of women, and the amount of the male is dramatically reduced. Therefore, obesity and a negative Association in women greater cause"and explain. Stanford large research team,the findings of the entire world of obesity understand the situation,new measures to crochet to help you out. For example, data on U.S. 69 about the City,foot travel is just how easy or difficult to quantify. As a result, New York and San Francisco as the city is pedestrian-friendly"most walkable"city, and yet I was. On the other hand, Houston and Memphis and other cities the automobile will not move, and"walk to"town I was. Then imagine walking along the street, and a place to live who is well walked. This data for example, residents are exercising vigorously streetscape design, and should be, the research team said. (Author's disclosure--I of yesterday of the number of steps is 1 million 590 walk was on Sunday for 129 walk was. This is a kitchen table on the phone 1 day it was from. It is my excuse is,bending is not going to) 