Systolic blood pressure and mean arterial BP (MAP) decreased significantly from pre to postl and post2 assessments (SBP, p < 0.0001; MAP, p < 0.0001). Diastolic blood pressure significantly decreased from pre to postl measurements (p = 0.008) but not from pre to post2 assessments. Finally, the investigators found significant relationships between social support and both DBP and MAP. Thus, it appears that church-based weight control and blood pressure education programs can have a significant impact on both treatment and prevention of hypertension in African Americans and probably in others as well. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS Hypertension is a common, life-threatening disorder that can lead to coronary heart disease, stroke, congestive heart failure, diabetes, and renal dysfunction. [...] Although pharmacologic treatment of hypertension can save lives by lowering blood pressure, concerns persist about the potential side effects of such treatments. Because of these concerns, there is increasing interest in nonpharmacologic approaches to the treatment of hypertension, particularly for people with only mild to moderate disease. Among nonpharmacologic methods for treating hypertension are psychosocial approaches such as increasing social support and reducing stress. There is also growing evidence that involvement in organized religion can not only provide individuals with greater social support but also enhance their sense of self-esteem and help reduce the negative consequences of stress on blood pressure. Of the 16 studies that have examined the relationship between level of religious involvement and blood pressure, 14 (88%) found lower blood pressure among the more religious (see Appendix); diastolic blood pressures, in particular, are lower among religious than among nonreligious subjects. Furthermore, certain religious practices, such as meditation, may directly lower blood pressure by inducing a relaxed state. Finally, given the success that church-based hypertension intervention programs have had in African American populations, there is reason to explore the effectiveness of such programs in a variety of populations, including Hispanics, Native Americans, and the elderly.