Trump US transgender military enlistment ban expressed Donald Trump the President on the 26th of mind and body gender don't match transgender people in the military enlisted to"what kind of duties even in the"not admit the idea of showing. Trump President, Twitter comments, a military expert from the opinions heard, and"about medical costs and confusion"is enlisted to deny, for the reasons just explained. Obama the previous government last year,transgender profess to be people of the military enlistment decision to affirm that. However, the lamp of the regime after the inauguration this year 6 month, James Matisse Secretary of defense is transgender recruits recruitment to six months delayed. Trump President's description of the policy announcement is the same as usual, Like on Twitter made. Trump,"my Generals and military experts in consultation with the United States government is a transgender person what their duties in the even the US military is working and not admit it,not to forgive, to let people know"it. "Our army is a decisive and overwhelming victory and focus on the transgender military to that, and the tremendous medical costs and confusion and a burden that is not" on the other hand, Sarah Sanders the President's press Secretary to reporters at the briefing,enlist the Prohibition of measures soon to be implemented is not said. On the battlefield that soldiers soon will return from questions received Sanders says, how to implement all the details you need and as described,this policy expressed the"military decision, and for other purposes"is added. The status quo is how the independent think tank, the Rand Corporation estimates, by 2016, at the time,about 4,000 people of transgender are active duty or reserve as the US military was in. Some activists from more than a 1 million out there. The Institute is also transgender enlist to admit in medical cost is 0. 13%,in the amount of approximately 840 million dollars (approximately 9 million 3000 million yen)increase of the prediction shows. US military paper Military Times, according to the Department of Defense ED(erectile dysfunction) drug"Viagra"to spending that amount, only increase the expected amount of 5 times has been reached. Transgender is publicly that of people who have military enlistment admit policy to the Obama administration for the last 6 months, at the time of the Secretary of Defense Ash Carter he announced. The policy is in the military, already working people are transsexuals who wish to medical assistance were also included. Transgender people enlist, as a condition of transsexuals after 1 year and a half or more stable state and was shown that had been cited. New policy this year 7 month 1 day of implementation was scheduled to have an administration this 6 months postponed. The Department of Defense, the US Army 5 the Army"enlisted plans and troop readiness, ability and attack ability against impact about the information to get"time and need. The U.S. military in 2011, homosexuals profess to be unless the military enlistment admit that"don't ask,don't tell"provisions been abolished. This policy have criticized people just saying that sexual minorities(LGBTQ)advocacy organization GLAAD is Trump policy"of Americans from our direct attack"it. Sex and gender concerning the military about the situation in the study of known Palm Center, led by Aero engine・room, Mr. BBC, for gays who"don't ask,don't tell"under the provisions previously existed with the same situation,transgender people are placed in to pointed. I have nothing against people just saying transgender enlist to oppose Republican politicians, one of the bit・Hearts live Congressman(Missouri elected), is the military to be transgender if he was in the form of the ex-should be made to argue. Some one is transgender enlisted person of transsexual related medical costs as opposed to. Conservative groups"Family Research Council"(FRC)Tony Perkins said,"We are soldiers of the transgender to"attentive"in a class for hours and hours to spend forced political correctness to be disturbed should not be,"he said. 