It was only in the last decade of the century that the first intimation of a fundamental reorientation came into the light. [...] In several respects, Alfred T. Mahan's famous trilogy on the influence of sea power upon history appears to the modern reader as a traditional nineteenth century product.1 [...] The new element was first of all the subject. For the first time in the nineteenth century, an American author dealt with the European past outside the traditional fields of legal, institutional, moral or ecclesiastical history. [...] But behind his narrative lay an expanded concept of the American — European community. It was no longer only a community of continuing traditions but a community of simultaneous destinies on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean. Mahan was the first American scholar of European history who saw the Old World and his own nation as equal partners in a specific development of political involvement. With this he became the harbinger of a new American outlook on the European past — of an outlook which was eventually to be dominated by the idea of the unity of fate. [FN] 1 The Influence of Sea Power upon History, 1660-1783 (1890); The Influence of Sea Power upon the French Revolution and Empire, 1793-1812 (1893); Sea Power in Its Relation to the War of 1812 (1905). [S. 70] Some "scientific historians", while specializing in the American Colonial period, became increasingly interested in the immediate background of British history and established the so-called "imperial tradition". We think of Charles M. Andrews and Herbert Levi Osgood, but quite particularly of George Louis Beer, who became the greatest American authority on the British Colonial System (1908-12). More influential than the impulses of the "scientific school", however, were those of the group of younger scholars who gathered around James Harvey Robinson at Columbia and adhered to the ideas he had laid down in his book on The New History (1912). [...] Among these scholars there were several experts in European history. [...] Charles A. Beard not only collaborated on several textbooks [...] Carl Becker had not yet published the works that were to make him well known [...] Among Robinson's first disciples, James T. Shotwell, Carlton Hayes and Lynn Thorndike were to become prominent in different areas of European history. 1