Rice Obama care repeal or amendment bill, particularly in the House of Representatives passed the Senate to Donald Trump the US President a major election pledge of the one we have raised for Obama Care(health care reform law)about the abolition of the Federal House of Representatives on the 4th, a new Abolition Bill 217 against 213 of narrowly passed. Trump Obamacare is"dead,"he declared. The ruling party・the Republican Party is 3 on the first abolition bill to the votes lack is withdrawn. The House of Representatives(constant 435 seats,4 seats vacant)in the Republican Party is at least 216 votes were needed. The content of Obama Care is substantially reduced for the new bill by Democratic lawmakers 193 everyone who voted against it were Republicans from the 20 people 造反, but need votes to 1 votes for the bill, the Senate deliberation be sent to the was. Rice Health Insurance Bill (American Health Care Act,AHCA)the House of Commons to vote on immediately after playing the President in the White House press conference. "Best of Bill"in the Senate even passed one said,"For avoidance of doubt. This is Obama care to eliminate it instead of just"stressed,Obama Care is"basically dead,"he declared. "Premiums are down,the deductible also goes down. What's more,the best of Bill"and the President was delighted. Trump for President and his inauguration, 3 months after the first large bill of the you win. 3 on May 24, the first abolition bill was scrapped a while not only to Republican House of Representatives opponents of incorporating conservative moderate also accepted a new draft law hastily for this, many were surprised. Cancer treatment and emergency treatment such as basic benefits, about whether the offering is on a state-by-state basis can be determined as items are added,many conservatives are in favor of turning to you. The premium hike that leads to the disease of the patient,5 years at 80 million dollars worth of medical costs the insurance covered by this from the party of moderates also support turned to. On the other hand,the new bill submission and voting is too impatient to criticism and even more,the Congressional Budget Office(CBO)is the content time to check for new system cost much, and in fact most of the people are covered from the outside, from the specific content is not clear. The CBO is a 3 month scrapped by the bill, the new system by 2018 is only about 1400 million people, 10 years 2400 million people health insurance eligibility lose estimated. As a result, in 2026 at the time of the uninsured citizens of 5200 million and reach estimated. In 2010"the burden allows the health care law(the Affordable Care Act,ACA)"(commonly known as Obama Care,Health Care Reform Act), was enacted by, it will uninsured state was 2000 million new medical insurance could be. However, premiums are paid to all citizens, medical insurance mandatory for this,the Republican Party is the Federal government's excessive intervention and criticism. Patient choice is taken away,premiums soaring by and attack you. By contrast, the DPJ,the new bill is poverty-loss from health insurance to take up the wealthy, the tax burden, reducing chronic disease patients from our medical attention to take away and accused. Bill is probably next month, in the Senate deliberations begin. The Senate passed the bill that are unclear. The Senate(constant 100 seats)also the Republican deputies 52 people, many in Occupy, but the difference narrowly,already, some Republican lawmakers,subsidiaries opposition to a bill have expressed. AHCA modifications to consider than their own, the filing of the bill aim to speak to the Republican lawmakers also have. The Senate is influential Bob Coker lawmakers(Republican, Tennessee) is the current ACHA Senate could pass through the"zero,"he said. The Republican executives of Lindsey Graham Senator(South Carolina),"yesterday and they had a fix, also not observed,the cost estimate, not the final deliberations 3 hours have ended for the bill and carefully consider"and tweets about. House of Representatives passed a bill in the Senate is correct if you fix the part about the House of Representatives for the agreement you need. Obama care from what change the Congress in the Capitol in front of the bill to protest that people gathered in the House of Representatives have come out and"shame!" As the cries continued. The bill was opposed by the Democratic Party of Nancy Pelosi the House Minority Leader is"very sad. In this country the most extensively,the distribution of wealth has changed the example to. The wealthy of the tax burden they wanted to reduce the(Republican)desire to any all of this had prevailed"and criticized. Bernie Sanders Senator(Democrat, Vermont) said,"thousands of Americans,health care will not die"and a warning. Hillary Clinton is"Republican by the shameful policy and moral bankruptcy"and point. New York State Attorney General,the bill if enacted, if the citizens from the medical to take for the government to sue the policy showed. On the other hand the Republican Party the bill passed a a great deal welcomed. Kevin・my car seat the House Minority Leader, the AHCA by Americans have more choices in addition to Obamacare's premiums will rise as the treatment of choice if you have a"death spiral"is stop and stressed. The White House's line・up, the chief of staff is"the United States victory in the", medical expenses to reduce and delighted. A vote before the Republican State Duma of the Executive a private meeting in the movie"Rocky"before the match of songs,"eye of the tiger"to get in the mood for. The BBC's Anthony・the team North America in charge of the reporter, and the Republican Party the Democratic Party the edge in the House of Representatives, the bill passed and was, but still 3 month to have the withdrawal was forced, the Republicans in the division,playing the President of the persuasiveness of their limitations were pointed out. "So the problem will not disappear. The deliberations of the Senate and transferred it,within the party of the fault is further pressure from the Trump of the persuasion techniques I tried that"and it explains that. 