The liver is often the next organ to be affected during the development of MODS. The hypoxaemia leads to an ischemia and anaerobic metabolic status of the liver parenchyma resulting in an increased permeability of the capillary endothelium. Proteinrich fluid passes through the vascular walls and collects in form of edema fluid in the interstitial space. Cellular components leaving the blood additionally increase the osmotic effect and the edema formation. Furthermore, it can result in cell damage in the form of a hydropic degeneration whereby disruptions in the electrolyte transport after membrane damage lead to an increased collection of fluid in the cytoplasma (Haljamäe, 1988; Hinshaw, 1996). Likewise mainly lower grade interstitial edema was found in the liver of all the animals of all groups. The differences were nonetheless insignificant. Significant differences were however registered regarding the hydropic degeneration of the liver. While most of the animals of the CCI group and the polytrauma group showed a lower grade hydropic degeneration, half of the examined livers in the Fx-Shock group were mildly up to highly hydropic degenerated. It is known from a study on rats and mice that the most severe dysfunctions after hemorrhagic shock is to be observed in the liver (Jiang et al., 1997). In the trauma model in this research a hemorrhagic shock likewise led to strong alterations on the liver. The animals of the Fx-Shock group showed a stronger hydropic degeneration of the liver than those of the traumatic brain injury group. It is however of interest that the animals of the polytrauma group, by which likewise a hemorrhagic shock and a brain trauma was induced, demonstrated only low-level changes of this nature. The additional trauma of the brain, which likewise causes a recruitment of immune cells possibly leads to a lower number of available cells ultimately leading to damage to the liver. It is also conceivable that it was triggered through the additional exposure of the brain and the hypothalamo–pituitary-axis suppression of the immune reaction which may contain the liver damage (Campbell et al., 2008).