[Seite 75] Careful backlighting creates several striking silhouette compositions. [Seite 76] During the same period, ‘effects’ lighting, where the light comes from a source within the scene, was also being introduced. The scene from THE GIRL WITHOUT A SOUL suggests that all the light comes from the single lamp visible at the rear. The main motivation for such lighting seems to be realism. [...] Silhouettes retained their expressive impact despite the development of other forms of selective illumination. • Sets and Staging During the 1910s, set design was of course becoming more elaborate. The move toward features permitted higher budgets for individual films. Several sets from Nordisk’s epic production ATLANTIS serve a straightforward narrative purpose of portraying the home of the protagonist, a sculptor; it also, however, shows evidence of a concern with pictorial beauty that is almost distracting in relation to the ongoing action.6 Some film-makers of this era consistently used elaborate sets that contribute little to narrative clarity but add considerable compositional interest; these include Georg af Klercker in Sweden, Evgenii Bauer in Russia, and Maurice Tourneur in the USA. With the advent of longer narratives, some film-makers also increasingly tried to create parallelisms that would link scenes that might be widely separated temporarily. Echoes within the settings provided a simple way of doing this. [...] • Depth There had been many cases of staging in depth before 1912.7 These were used mainly for moving characters from one space to another and for situations where the action demands it, [...] [Seite 77] One of the most common uses of deep staging, however, places a character in the foreground of a set, looking at someone in the background. [...] Similarly, the looking character could be placed in the distant background, as in this shot from HOMUNCULUS (Fig. 19, 1916, Otto Rippert). Such depth shots look quite dramatic to us today, but they are so common in the early to mid-1910s that I suspect they originally functioned to convey the same information that the eyeline match was soon to fulfill more frequently. 7 Ben Brewster, ‘Deep Staging in French Films 1900-1914’, Thomas Elsaesser (ed.), Early Cinema: Space, Frame, Narrative, London: BFI Publishing, 1990, pp. 45-55, and the early chapters of Barry Salt’s Film Style & Technology: History & Analysis, London: Starword, 1983.