[Seite 172] Those who wanted to close down could have done so. But the remark was made that if the occupation lasted years, the functioning of the cinemas could be vital for the survival of their owners and staff.4 One argument of those who wanted to stop all activity was that before the war the film industry had rejected censorship, and now it would be accepting it! They forsaw that after the war it would be difficult to protest against such measures should the Belgian government introduce them. [...] In 1915 some entrance fees were as much as a day’s welfare allocation. Although some music halls with film programmes did not charge an entrance fee, money was spent on drinks during the projections. The argument that poor people preferred spending their money on leisure instead of food, clothing and housing explains to a great extent why local authorities were against the opening of cinemas. At that time, a lot of towns were still in ruins, and misery was rampant. Only with the help of the Germans or activists could certain cinemas start again. [...] The propaganda services of the Council of Handers often held meetings in cinemas. [...] The fact that nationalists held meetings in cinemas meant that these buildings were protected. In the summer of 1918, the Germans confiscated all electric machinery for their war efforts. The cinemas used for meetings, however, were not affected.6 [Seite 173] Although the bourgeoisie complained that their tenants preferred spending their money on cinema than on paying their rent, they also went to the cinema to forget the ruins of the destroyed city. In encouraging movie-going, the occupier could show that he, instead of the local government, answered the needs of the population. Besides direct economical advantages, there was also an indirect political one: the German way of looking at the world dominated the Belgian screens. This probably explains why the Germans became more and more interested in film produced especially for screening in the occupied territories. Since the occupation began, (direct) import of films from France or Great Britain and later from the USA had been forbidden. But in the first years of the war, prewar allied films submitted to the censor before the middle of May 1915 were still schown. Other films were not allowed. In January 1918, the chief of the political section of the general governor in Belgium, Freiherr Oscar von der Lancken, boasted that thanks to the pressure of his Pressezentrale, German film production had replaced French production. In 1915 the German films were imported via the Film-Export Gesellschaft established in Düsseldorf, through a branch in Brussels. The aim of this company was to introduce German film in occupied Belgium and Northern France. Administrators included Alfred Rosenthal from Düsseldorf and the critic Lorenz Pieper (Bild und Film) from Mönchengladbach, who directed the branch in Brussels from the end of 1916. For the year 1916 their annual turnover tripled, and they claimed to have sent more than one thousand titles (representing 500.000 meters).7 According to Von der Lancken, it was due to depletion of the French film stock that the Belgian market had to import more than 260.599 meters of German film to fulfill the estimated need of 300.000 meters in 1917. [...] In any case, in 1917-1918 Belgium was a very important market for the German film industry, including also the German-controlled Danish or Hungarian cinema. 4 H. Gaus, ‘Het cultureel-maatschappelijk leven in België 1918-1940’, AGN, vol. 14, p. 282. 6 Der Belgischer Kurier, 19 November 1915, p. 6 . The social welfare received a lot of financial help from the USA via the ‘National Committee for Relief in Belgium’. 7 D. Vanacker, ‘Het aktivistisch avontuur’, Gent, 1991, Algemeen Rijks Archief (henceforth ARA) Brussels, Archief van de Raad van Viaanderen, D71, Correspondence of Wannijn.