[Seite 21] Among the film directors one should mention here two future masters of world cinema, Mihaly Kertesz, or Michael Curtiz as he called himself in the USA, who learned his craft at Nordisk Film, and Sandor Korda, or Sir Alexander Korda later in Great Britain. [...] Korda was also active as a journalist, chief editor of a serious film magazine, Pesti Mozi, that dealt with the specific quality of the new art of cinema. He was one of the first to write in 1908 that the film director is a creative artist.8 Both Kertesz and Korda left Hungary after the fall of the short-lived Workers’ Republic in 1919. It is worth mentioning that the mayor of Budapest, Dezso Boda, officially appealed to cinema owners in 1913 to show more Hungarian pictures.9 To our knowledge it was the only sign of official support for a national cinema at the time. Generally, governmental and municipal bodies disregarded the film industry totally or, to put it better, they saw cinema only as a source of tax revenues, taking a share in the profits for their own budgets. There were two other places in Austria-Hungary where films were made: in Bohemia and in two towns in Galicia, Krakow and Lwow. In Prague the regular production of fiction films started in 1908 when two companies were registered: Kinofa of photographer Anton Pech, and Illusion of Alois Janovits, a cinema owner. They were joined by a third firm in 1912, Asum, owned by the actress Andula Sedlackova and her husband, the architect Max Urban. [...] [...] The capital of Galicia, Lwow, and the ancient capital of independent Poland, Krakow, were the real havens for Polish patriots. Here they could speak, write and - more importantly - act under conditions unthinkable in the two other parts of Poland, which were under Russian and German occupation. Theater, literature and painting blossomed. [Seite 22] Unfortunately, the cinema did not find its place among the traditional arts. It was still too young and too primitive, lacking the necessary means to develop. The young Polish actor Wiktor Bieganski tried to shoot some feature films in Krakow, but they never reached the screens of the eighty-odd cinemas in Galicia. In Lwow the producers were more successful. Here the popular play of Wladyslaw Anczyc, ‘Koścłuszko at the Battle of Raclawice’, was adapted for cinema, showing an episode of the insurrection against Russia in 1794. The company Leopolia Film produced the film in 1913, mobilizing quite a number of people and military equipment to participate in the fighting scenes, [...] The film was badly photographed and equally badly interpreted. Nevertheless, it was vividly distributed, and the patriotic and not very critical spectators enjoyed the cinematographic spectacle. The outbreak of the War put an end to Galician film production. 8 Istvan Nemeskurty, Word and Image: History of the Hungarian Cinema, Budapest, 1968, p. 31. 9 Der Kinematograph, 31 December 1913.