[Seite 19] The same talent, perhaps to a larger degree, was evident in Asta Nielsen. After her film AFGRUNDEN (‘The Abyss’) she became the international film star number one, known as the ‘Eleonora Duse of the cinema art’. She pursued a fantastic career in Germany in films directed by Urban Gad, also the author of most of the scripts. She became the authority in fashion, imitated in dress and followed in the new line of feminine silhouette. Urban Gad was admired as a film director, but he was not the only Dane working in the German film industry. Stellan Rye deserves special mention, who made with the help of Hans Heinz Ewers and Paul Wegener DER STUDENT VON PRAG (‘The Student of Prague’), and also Viggo Larsen, who ran his own producing company in Berlin with his German wife, the actress Wanda Treumann. [Seite 20] We commence with Austria-Hungary because here the First World War started, here one heard for the first time the Guns of August. It began in a territory that had never been very calm and peaceful. Bosnia-Hercegowina was allocated to Austria-Hungary in the Berlin Peace Treaty of 1878. Its population, in particular the Serbians, opposed this arrangement and even more so after the military annexations by Austria. The last and most dramatic of a series of rebellious actions was the assassination of the heir to the throne, the Archduke Franz Ferdinand, in Sarajevo on 28 June 1914. The killer was a Serbian student, Gavrilo Princip. A month later, war broke out. Vienna, the center of the Austro-Hungarian empire, had an underdeveloped film industry, poor and not adequate to Austria’s international position, particularly in comparison with the two other empires, Germany and Russia. In 1913, only two studios showed more or less regular activity: Wiener Kunst Film Industrie, created by a photographer, Anton Kulm, and Sascha Film Fabrik of Graf Kolovrat Krakovsky. [...] Vienna had 140 cinemas in 1913, showing imported films most of the time. Quite a different picture was presented by the cinema in the other part of the Empire, the kingdom of Hungary. If we look at the atmosphere and not at the number of films produced, it is obvious that the pictures that reached the screen were better than their Austrian counterparts. Here the film industry collaborated with literature and thea- [Seite 21] tre. [...] Three studios were active in Budapest, the most important and the oldest being Projectograph, and two more in the provinces, in Eger and in Kolozsvar. The last one had a link with the National Theatre through film director Jeno Janovics. The general trend in production consisted of adaptations of literary works, both classical and popular ones. In 1913, nineteen Hungarian feature films were released. The next year, the number jumped to 31.7 Among the film directors one should mention here two future masters of world cinema, Mihaly Kertesz, or Michael Curtiz as he called himself in the USA, who learned his craft at Nordisk Film, and Sandor Korda, or Sir Alexander Korda later in Great Britain. 7 Magyar filmografia 2, 1901-1916, Budapest, 1962, pp. 19-20.