[Seite 24] He wrote the scenario for the best German film not only of 1913 but of the entire prewar period, DER STUDENT VON PRAG. Ewers shares this praise with the film’s director Stellan Rye, and in greater degree with the interpreter of the title role Paul Wegener, as well as with cameraman Guido Seeber. Why did the mode of the Autorenfilm not last long? There are two reasons, linked together. Firstly, the authors did not represent the cream of German literature. Secondly, what they suggested to the public was not of the greatest interest and the best quality. The more demanding spectators were disappointed, and the less demanding clientele of suburban cinemas preferred something else, most often sensation: police stories, crime dramas, extraordinary adventures. It is therefore characteristic that the only work which remains for posterity, besides DER STUDENT VON PRAG, is not a film but a book of scenarios, Das Kinobuch, edited by Kurt Pinthus. He was a journalist interested in cinema, and he wrote film reviews. [...] He felt that the adaptation of literary works for cinema was wrong, and that the future of cinema art lay in original scripts using the proper means of expression of the new medium. The imitation of literary or theatrical approaches was out of place. Pinthus mobilized a group of young writers, most of them close to the Expressionist movement, asking them to write short outlines of scripts. Their aim was to give to readers a vision of the world which might at first sight not appear to be true, but was perhaps actually closer to the real world upon consideration. Pinthus defines these short pieces of prose as cinema of the soul, ‘Kino der Seele’.14 [...] In the third Empire, Russia, cinema had significance and importance adequate to the rank of the state. It was a well-established branch of industry, possessing all the elements guaranteeing proper development: cinemas, production companies, distribution [Seite 25] offices, international trade contacts, and a steadily growing number of professionals. The Russian cinema was extremely popular at home and gained recognition abroad, particularly in France. Guillaume Apollinaire was one of the admirers of films made in Moscow.15 This positive image should not hide some weak points. The year 1913 was not a good one, for many reasons. Change for the worse was already noticeable in 1912. The flood of foreign films, outnumbering these from national production by ten to one, had its effect on the taste of the public. As a result, the emphasis on Russian history, ethnographic values, folklore - a leading trend in former years - was weakened and sometimes disappeared. The interest in literature, particularly in the classics, diminished as well. A closer look at the Russian fiction films reveals that 112 films were released in 1913: 47 of long and medium length and 65 shorts.161 am excluding from this a few films made in Riga, Latvia, as well as those produced in the Polish part of the Empire, and co-productions with the Tanagra company in St. Petersburg and Bioscop in Berlin. The year 1913 marked the 300th anniversary of the accession to the throne of the Romanov dynasty. Two films celebrating this historical event were simultaneously screened on 16 February 1913. 14 Das Kinobuch: Kinodramen (Introduction by Kurt Pinthus), Leipzig, 1914. Quoted in Hätte ich das Kino. p. 94. 15 Georges Sadoul, Histoire générale du cinéma, vol. 3, Paris, 1951, p. 232.