[Seite 23] The German Empire presented quite a different image compared with Austria-Hungary. Here was a real film industry claiming all the necessary elements for development, namely a chain of cinemas, some production companies of stable character, and finally professionals working in three branches: production, distribution and exhibition. Germany counted 2371 cinemas in 1913; Berlin had more than two hundred.11 In the same year, 294 new German fiction films were shown to the public: 179 features of three reels or more, and 115 shorts. 31 production and distribution firms supplied the films.12 Let us add to these statistics that more than ten film studios were active, several small ateliers in Berlin and two purpose-built structures in Neubabelsberg and Tempelhof. [...] Certainly, the majority of screened films could claim good, sometimes excellent technical standards. Not surprising if one remembers the skilled craftsmen working or just starting in the studios: cameramen like Carl Froelich or Guido Seeber, the set designer Hans Warm, later one of the main creators of DAS CABINET DES DR. CALIGARI, and film directors Urban Gad, Stellan Rye, Franz Porten, Max Mack and Joe May. The new trend, however, was the adaptation of literary works. This tendency was encouraged by many articles and studies in the film press, in influential weeklies such as Der Kinematograph, LichtBildBühne and Internationale Filmzeitung. [...] However, as early as 1908 a Society for the Use of Literary Values for Cinema Aims had been created in Berlin, and the pressure put on writers to collaborate with film-makers increased in later years. When in 1912 three organizations of German playwrights forbade their members to have any contact with cinema, [...] some well-known playwrights were ready to betray their colleagues and found their way to cinema. This was the birth of a new name, Autorenfilm or the Authors’ Film, which does not not [sic] have anything in common with the French New Wave invention. By author of a film one meant the author of a literary work who adapted it for cinema. His name had a leading place in the introductory titles on the screen. Paul Lindau, who adapted his play ‘Der Andere’ (‘The Other’), staged in Munich in 1913, was the first of these German Film Authors. Albert Bassermann played the title role in the screen version. The film was shown in the Mozartsaal in Berlin on 13 February 1913 and was crowned [Seite 24] with both commercial and artistic success. The popularity of the concept of The Film Authors was due to the cinema adaptations prepared by writers well known abroad, already mentioned above: Gerhart Hauptmann, Arthur Schnitzler and Hugo von Hofmannstahl. It would be impossible to exclude from this list Max Reinhardt, though strictly speaking he was not the author of a literary work, but his creative share outgrew by far that of his literary collaborators. DIE INSEL DER SEELIGEN (‘The Island of the Dead’) is rightly remembered as a film of Max Reinhardt and not of Albert Kahane. Hans Heinz Ewers did not write for theater, and therefore he was not a rebel and not known as a Film Author. He wrote the scenario for the best German film not only of 1913 but of the entire prewar period, DER STUDENT VON PRAG. 11 Hätte ich das Kino, p. 57. 12 Gerhard Lamprecht, Deutsche Stummfilm, 1913-1914, Berlin, 1969, pp. 11-348.