[Seite 32] Such Boer fakes were not always very convincing. A trade journal was asked how real war films could be distinguished from fakes and described one of the latter: There is a hand-to-hand encounter between Boers and British, all realistic in its way, but the effect is somewhat spoilt by reason of the fringe of an audience appearing on the picture occasionally. [...] Faking of war films was soon treated as a bit of a joke. A press cartoon appeared during the Boxer Rebellion in 1900, showing the war being stage-managed for the cameras. The cartoonist’s conceit would soon become fact in the Mexican War in 1914, when Pancho Villa signed a contract with the Mutual Film Company to film his battles.13 Audiences for War Films, and Propaganda Whether they were the genuine article or fakes, war films drew huge audiences and were enormously emotive. The impact of such films was often increased by the use of music, patriotic commentary, sound effects of explosions and the like. During the Spanish-American War films became one element in the extraordinary nationalist fervour which swept America. It was a similar story with films of other wars: the Sudan Campaign and Boer War screened in Britain, the Russo-Japanese War in Japan, and the Moroccan War (1907) in Spain. In each case films were used by the winning side to help amplify their victory. [...] It is perhaps not surprising that there was little enthusiasm for war films in the losing countries. [...] And during the Balkan Wars, correspondents noted that, though cinemas in defeated Turkey were booming, they were showing American and French comedies and melodramas and none of the news films about the war. In fact, I [Seite 33] have found no record of films relating to the war shown in Turkey until the Turks managed to recapture Adrianople in 1913. [...] Of all the wars in this period, it was probably the Boer War which elicited the most powerful emotions, and there was a general anti-British feeling in many European countries at this time. Most of the fake war films produced in Europe were pro-Boer, and usually showed the British ingloriously defeated. [...] In some European countries anti-British feelings ran high. In Germany, Boer War films were actually banned for a time due to concerns about their emotive nature. But the most extreme reaction seems to have arisen in Belgium, where the register of letters to the British Embassy in Bruxelles is full of complaints from British people living in Belgium of anti-British behaviour on the part of locals, and specifically about cartoons which insulted Queen Victoria, and a pro-Boer theatre show and films. [...] Meanwhile, in America, Boer fakes were also being produced, but, keen as always to exploit all markets, the Edison company made two versions: one in which the Boers win the battles, and the other in which it is the British (dressed, bizarrely in US [Seite 34] Civil War uniforms!). A similar double-edged marketing strategy appeared during later wars: Pathé’s fakes of the Russo-Japanese War were made with titles reading either ‘Vivent les Russes’ or 'Vivent les Japonaises’, to appeal to audiences sympathetic to either side. 13 Beiblatt zum Kladderadatsch, 2 September 1900. There were press cartoons on this theme during the Spanish-American and later wars (to be covered in my forthcoming book on cartoons and early cinema). For Villa, see Kevin Brownlow, The War, the West, and the Wilderness, London: Seeker and Warburg, 1978, p. 92. Films were stage-managed on location during the Balkan Wars by a Danish cameraman, Magnussen, and by Sir Bryan Leighton (partly because he’d missed the battles).