Hawaii Federal district court,immigration restraining order to relieve relatives of immigration admit that Donald Trump the US President to the Middle East and Africa of the Islamic world 6 countries from entering the country, such as inhibit the presidential decree, the Hawaii Federal District Court judge on the 13th,in the United States who live in grandparent or a relative of the entry ban is not with the decision. Trump the regime of immigration restriction measures, the Federal District Court or High Court and a confrontation followed. Hawaii Federal District Court of the Derrick・Watson, judge, grandparents, and relatives of the entry ban to the President's decree of execution conditionally admitted 6 months of Supreme Court decisions narrowly interpret too as pointed out. The Supreme Court, and regulated the country about people in the United States is with the people who live in"authenticity"of the family relationship, if there is no entry is not allowed and the judgment showed. The Trump administration is operational, and the"bona fide"family relationships of grandparents and uncles, aunts, nieces, nephews are not included and drawn a line. However, this Watson judge to dissent,restricting that portion of the Executive so as not ordered. Watson judge the government by relatives of the definition is"unnecessarily restrictive"and criticism. "For example common sense, according to close relatives to grandparents are included. Rather, the grandparents, the relatives, it would be"wrote. Federal District Court Judge's orders to Hawaii, not only in the US that applies to. State courts, unlike Federal courts are the Federal Supreme Court from delegated jurisdiction to exercise on a national scale matters to interpret the law. The Supreme Court of 10 February, the immigration ban of the decree of the President about the final decisions of policy. Trump administration of the presidential decree, the Muslim(Muslim)citizens of the majority of Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Yemen and 6 countries from entering the country for 90 days the ban, the refugees accept a 120 days ban of. The President of the United States, safety measures needed to argue. However, several state governments and refugee rights organizations, such as the Muslims against discriminatory contents and criticism, and guarantees the freedom of religion to violate the Constitution to argue that. 