London in the Northeast acid attack is continuous and 5 boys arrested in London northeast of the 5 locations in 13 day and night,passers-by, but nothing to the corrosive strong acid like substances to be thrown from the incident is the 5 Series. London police,10 years old boy, injury and suspicion of theft arrest announced. London North East of Hackney, Stoke co,transport links 10 p.m., 25 minutes from around 90 minutes in,the acid used attacks 5 times one after another, the police is a continuous affair and all that. Victims of One More"Life is changed, like"most of the serious injuries and the like. According to investigators, Hackney streets 10 p.m. for 25 minutes,mode page code (moped bike)was riding in a 32 year old male next to the model page to carpool to the male Duo is unapproachable,the men on the face of the corrosive substance hurled. The culprit of one of the men take away the bike, the two together from the scene and fled with. The affair 5 out of chronological increase in acid attacks in England since 2012,is a very corrosive substance using the attack number is doubled. Particularly in London in recent years, acid the number of attacks is dramatically increased. London Metropolitan Police according to statistics,in 2015 in the city during the acid attack is 261 out was last year against the 458 was increased. So far this year in 119 cases have occurred (13 days and 5 except). Stoke co elected Labour MPs in the shadow interior Minister of the Diane Abbott says,"or a terrible acid attack. For memory pages to steal, just for just a lifetime left to like is not the one from"it. Ham, elected Stephen Tim Labour MPs,London acid attack increases about the House of Commons to debate a motion submitted. Last year in London during the acid attack of about 3 percent,Tim Deputies of the electoral districts within New York that have happened. Tim MPs BBC Radio, for legitimate reasons to the sulfuric acid bottle to carry around, and Cutlery as well as illegal and should be said. "I particularly, was concerned that"the deputies stressed. Sarah Newton Home Affairs Parliamentary Secretary for BBC Radio, against the government of the East end of London, such as during the acid attack, some of the chemical substances about the tightening of regulations considering the said. However,"chemical substances, ordinary home kitchen like the one"the actual regulation is difficult and explained. Newton Vice is acid"as a weapon"to be used is obvious, the others to the attack of acid use of those who"motivated"for the investigation has begun and said. Furthermore, the acid used was injury action against sentencing the government and considering and spoke. 