Electronic commerce and the Internet offer developing countries considerable opportunities to enhance economic growth and welfare. A number of countries already benefit from new export opportunities including data entry, software development, claims and forms processing and accounting. These opportunities, in turn, attract more foreign and domestic investments, and thereby enhance growth (Primo Braga, 1997). In addition, developing countries are likely to benefit considerably from enhanced communication and information availability. Education and medical services come to mind, and several countries are improving their access to such information (Box 7). The Internet will make it easier for producers in poor countries to become part of an international bidding and supply process from which they were largely excluded in the past. The UNCTAD is supporting developing country efforts in this regard through its Trade Point Programme. The programme is creating a “Global Trade Point Network” to facilitate access to trade-related information for small and medium-sized companies and to promote the integration of developing countries into the world trading system. Trade Points are being connected with each other through the Internet (UNTPDC, 1998). [...] In many developing countries, incomes are so low that most people do not even have access to telephones. The Internet is out of reach, except for the very wealthy (ITU, 1997a). Other problems include an under-developed and outdated infrastructure, high prices and low service quality, lack of qualified personnel, and lack of literacy. [...] In principle, new technologies such as low-orbit satellites, private sector funding [...] and reforms of the regulatory environment (dismantling of monopolies, entry barriers, and price controls) should allow developing countries to progress rapidly (Primo Braga, 1997). Indeed, many developing countries are liberalizing infrastructure provision and access, as well as the information technology sector. In some Latin American countries, NGOs help people to become computer-literate and sell their products via the Internet. In Indonesia, so-called community clusters have emerged to allow access to telecommunication in rural areas. Partnerships between universities from industrialized and developing countries are assisting the latter in gaining access to global information networks. While these initiatives are not likely to produce significant results overnight, with time they will provide a strong impetus for growth and development.